---
id: '009a42c2c23ba8998846563cee1bac93'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/282P07'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:39:55.321704+00:00'
---
This concept describes general aspects regarding promotion validation.

During the checkout all promotion codes in the basket have to be validated. The promotion codes are internally stored as *Service Line Items*.

The are three checks that have to be executed:

| Check | Description |
|---|---|
`PromotionCodeBO.isActive()` | Check if the promotion code and its parents is active (for at least one path - if there are multiple promotions) |
`PromotionCodeBO.isAccessible()` | Check if the promotion code and its parents is accessible (for at least one path - if there are multiple promotions) |
`PromotionCodeBO.canBeRedeemed(UserBO)` | Check if the promotion code can be redeemed for the given user (checks number of redemptions total/per user) |

See [Concept - Promotion Activation Status and Accessibility](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1826496377/Concept+-+Promotion+Activation+Status+and+Accessibility) for further details about the methods `isActive()`

and `isAccessible()`

. The check `canBeReemed`

will only do checks when

the number of reuses/redemptions total/per user is configured for the promotion or promotion code.

If there are multiple promotions assigned to the same promotion code group, it is sufficient to have one valid promotion.

The following figure shows two examples. In the first example the promotion code is active because there's one path from the root (promotion code) to a leaf (promotion) where all objects are active. In the second example the promotion code and promotion code group are both active, but the assigned promotions or the assigned campaign at the leaf of the tree are not active and as a result the promotion code is not active, too.

A promotion code can be applied to a basket using the `BasketBOPromotionCodeExtension`

.

As the following example shows the extension provides a method `addPromotionCode`

which takes a string parameter and returns an `AddPromotionCodeResult`

.

The result has two methods to determine if the result was successful or not (`isFailure`

) and which was the reason for failing (`getFailureCode`

). If the operation was successful the created `PromotionCodeBO`

can be retrieved from the result via `getPromotionCodeBO`

.

BasketBOPromotionCodeExtension basketBOPromotionCodeExtension = basketBO.getExtension(BasketBOPromotionCodeExtension.class); AddPromotionCodeResult result = basketBOPromotionCodeExtension.addPromotionCode("INTERSHOP"); if (result.isFailure()) { // do some error handling System.out.println("Error " + result.getFailureCode()); } else { PromotionCodeBO promotionCodeBO = result.getPromotionCodeBO(); // do some further stuff }

The `BasketBOPromotionCodeExtension`

allows to use an exchangeable `PromotionCodeAddToBasketValidator`

which is wired via Google Guice. The method `validatePromotionCodeAddToBasket`

takes the promotion code as String, as well as the BasketBO as parameters. It produces an `PromotionCodeAddToBasketValidationResult`

. The result contains two methods `isFailure`

and `getFailureCode`

.

@Inject private PromotionCodeAddToBasketValidator promotionCodeAddToBasketValidator; ... PromotionCodeAddToBasketValidationResult validationResult = promotionCodeAddToBasketValidator.validatePromotionCodeAddToBasket("INTERSHOP", basketBO); if (validationResult.isFailure()) { // do some error handling System.out.println(validationResult.getFailureCode()); }

The *default implementation* of the `PromotionCodeAddToBasketValidator`

validates the given promotion code for:

| Check | Description | Error Codes |
|---|---|---|
| Length | Code must not be null or empty. (maximum length 128 characters) | PromotionCodeEmpty, PromotionCodeMaxLength |
| Duplicate | Check whether code is already applied to the basket. | PromotionCodeAlreadyInBasket |
| Existence | Check whether promotion code exists in the system. | PromotionCodeNotFound |
| Maximum number of codes | Checks the maximum number of promotion codes in the basket (application preference). | NumberOfApplicablePromotionCodesReached |
| Activation Status | Check if PromotionCodeBO.isActive() - See
|

For further details how to exchange the validator implementation see [Cookbook - Promotion Validation](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1826500397/Cookbook+-+Promotion+Validation).

Two checkout pipelines provide are the possibility to apply a promotion code: `ViewCart-ApplyPromotion`

and `ViewCheckoutPayment-ApplyPromotion`

. The implementations are quite similar and since version 7.9 both use the strict process pipeline `ProcessBasket-ApplyPromotionCode`

which itself uses the business object layer to redeem a promotion code. The old pipeline which contains a lot of pipeline logic was renamed to `ViewCart-ApplyPromotion_Legacy`

. For further details about the old implementation and migration see [Guide - 7.9 Migration Promotion Validation](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1826499549/Guide+-+7.9+Migration+Promotion+Validation).

`ViewCart-ApplyPromotion`

(New since 7.9)

For compatibility reasons the new error codes that are produced by the default implementation of the `PromotionCodeAddToBasketValidator`

are mapped to the existing error keys that are evaluated in the responsive storefront.

The mapping is defined in a HashMap with Key-Value-Pairs (New Value, Old Value). This is done using the two pipelets `AddMultipleEntriesToMap`

and the `KeyMapper`

in the pipeline showed above.

| New Error Code from Validator | Existing Error code used in the storefront |
|---|---|
| PromotionCodeEmpty | not_valid |
| PromotionCodeMaxLength | max_length |
| PromotionCodeAlreadyInBasket | already_used_in_cart |
| PromotionCodeNotFound | not_valid |
| NumberOfApplicablePromotionCodesReached | redemptions_reached |
| PromotionCodeNotActive | not_valid |
| PromotionCodeNotAccessible | not_valid |
| PromotionCodeAlreadyRedeemed | redemptions_reached |
| NoPromotionApplicable | no_applicable_promotion |

ProcessBasket-ApplyPromotionCode (*bc_orderprocess*)

The process pipeline `ProcessBasket-ApplyPromotionCode`

implements the functionality to redeem a promotion code and defines to transaction frame for it. Additionally it provides an extension point where customers can add additional customized functionality after a promotion code has been applied successfully. It can also be used to roll the whole transaction back.

When a promotion code is applied to a basket a reservation entry is created for the code/promotion and basket. The *promotion code redemption check* which validates the number of left redemptions takes the reservations into account and will treat a valid reservation in the same manner like the code is redeemed in a created order.

If a code is already in the basket and the corresponding reservation is about to expire, the promotion code validation will **automatically extend the promotion code reservation if possible** (creation date and expiration date are updated)** .** When the maximum number of redemptions is exceeded (either redemptions in orders or only reservations) an error will occur.

For more information see [Concept - Promotion Codes](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1826506683/Concept+-+Promotion+Codes) - section [Reservation of Promotion Codes](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1826506683/Concept+-+Promotion+Codes#Concept-PromotionCodes-ReservationofPromotionCodes).

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.