---
id: '00e433fba736f4f92cd730d39fb0c04b'
title: 'Download Specification'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/C29642'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:40:42.767589+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/C29642

# Download Specification

This API specification is available for download as an Open API 2.0 YAML file:

## Limitations

API Specification

swagger: '2.0' info: description: The IOM GDPR REST API supports programmatic access to GDPR related objects. version: 2.9.0.0 title: IOM GDPR REST API contact: name: Intershop Communications AG url: 'http://intershop.com' basePath: /rest/gdpr tags: - name: Objects schemes: - http - https paths: '/shops/{shopName}/customers/{shopCustomerNumber}': get: tags: - Objects summary: Get GDPR relevant customer data description: Returns GDPR relevant customer data for a given shopCustomerNumber and shopName. operationId: getCustomer produces: - application/vnd.intershop.customer.v3+json parameters: - name: shopCustomerNumber in: path description: The customer number of the shop required: true type: string - name: shopName in: path description: The shop name required: true type: string responses: '200': description: OK schema: $ref: '#/definitions/Customer' '401': description: Authentication information is missing or invalid headers: WWW-Authenticate: type: string description: '' '403': description: Forbidden '404': description: Not Found security: - basicAuth: [] - bearerAuth: [] securityDefinitions: bearerAuth: description: JWT Bearer token type: apiKey name: Authorization in: header basicAuth: description: Basic Authentication type: basic definitions: Address: type: object properties: firstName: type: string example: Bob description: The first name of the address owner. lastName: type: string example: Buyer description: The last name of the address owner. title: type: string example: Dr. description: The title of the address owner. companyName: type: string street: type: string example: Musterstraße description: The street of the address of the address owner. houseNumber: type: string example: '5' description: The house number of the address of the address owner. addressAddition1: type: string example: 3. OG description: The first address addition of the address of the address owner. addressAddition2: type: string example: Terasse description: The second address addition of the address of the address owner. addressAddition3: type: string description: The third address addition of the address of the address owner. addressAddition4: type: string description: The fourth address addition of the address of the address owner. addressType: type: string example: Shipping address description: The type of the address. postCode: type: string example: '10178' description: The postal code of the address of the address owner. city: type: string example: Berlin description: The city of the address of the address owner. district: type: string description: The distrct of the address of the address owner. country: type: string example: Germany description: The country of the address of the address owner. email: type: string example: b.buyer@bbcompany.de description: The email address of the address owner. fax: type: string description: The fax number of the address owner. mobilePhone: type: string description: The mobile phone number of the address owner. phone1: type: string description: The first phone number of the address owner. phone2: type: string description: The second phone number of the address owner. isContainerFreightStation: type: boolean isDefault: type: boolean gender: type: string example: male description: The gender of the address owner. salutation: type: string example: Mr. description: The salutation of the address owner. poBox: type: string nightShipping: type: boolean description: Represents an address of a customer. Customer: type: object properties: creationDate: type: string format: date-time example: '2018-02-27T09:15:37.562+02:00' customerType: type: string example: b2c dayOfBirth: type: string format: date example: '1992-01-10' firstName: type: string example: Bob hasNewsletter: type: boolean example: false isActive: type: boolean example: true isNewCustomer: type: boolean example: true lastName: type: string example: Buyer gender: type: string example: male shopCustomerNo: type: string example: BB002 description: 'Deprecated: will be replaced by shopCustomerNumber in a future version.' shopCustomerNumber: type: string example: BB002 title: type: string email: type: string example: b.buyer@bbcompany.de fax: type: string mobilePhone: type: string phone1: type: string phone2: type: string companyName: type: string bankAccounts: type: array items: $ref: '#/definitions/CustomerBankAccount' addresses: type: array items: $ref: '#/definitions/Address' orders: type: array items: $ref: '#/definitions/CustomerOrder' invoiceAndCreditNotes: type: array items: $ref: '#/definitions/CustomerInvoiceAndCreditNote' customerBalances: type: array items: $ref: '#/definitions/CustomerBalance' description: Represents a customer. CustomerBalance: type: object properties: currency: type: string example: EUR description: The currency the amounts are listed in. openInvoiceAmount: type: number format: double example: -154.7 openInvoiceAmountCalculationDate: type: string format: date-time example: '2018-02-27T09:15:37.562+02:00' bookedCreditSum: type: number format: double example: 0 bookedDebitSum: type: number format: double example: 0 chargedCreditSum: type: number format: double example: 0 chargedDebitSum: type: number format: double example: 0 chargedOpenSum: type: number format: double example: 0 invoicingCreditSum: type: number format: double example: 0 invoicingDebitSum: type: number format: double example: -154.7 negativeBookedOpenSum: type: number format: double example: 154.7 positiveBookedOpenSum: type: number format: double example: 0 description: Represents a customer balance. CustomerBankAccount: type: object properties: accountHolder: type: string accountNumber: type: string bankCode: type: string bankName: type: string description: Represents a bank account of a customer. CustomerInvoiceAndCreditNote: type: object properties: type: type: string example: creditnote description: Represents the type ("invoice" or "creditnote") relatedShopOrderNos: type: array example: '[20180303_123, 20180303_124]' description: 'The list of shop order numbers of the related orders. Deprecated: will be replaced by relatedShopOrderNumbers in a future version.' items: type: string relatedShopOrderNumbers: type: array example: '[20180303_123, 20180303_124]' description: The list of shop order numbers of the related orders. items: type: string invoiceNo: type: string example: 2018-000002 description: 'The number of the invoice or credit note. Deprecated: will be replaced by invoiceNumber in a future version.' invoiceNumber: type: string example: 2018-000002 description: The number of the invoice or credit note. referenceInvoiceNo: type: string example: 2018-000001 description: 'The original invoice related to this invoice in case of invoice updates. Deprecated: will be replaced by referenceInvoiceNumber in a future version.' referenceInvoiceNumber: type: string example: 2018-000001 description: The original invoice related to this invoice in case of invoice updates. invoicingDate: type: string format: date-time example: '2018-02-27T09:15:37.562+02:00' description: Date when the invioce creation was finished. currency: type: string example: EUR description: The currency the invoice prices are listed in. paymentMethod: type: string example: credit card description: The name of the payment method. paymentDueDate: type: string format: date-time example: '2018-02-27T09:15:37.562+02:00' description: Date when the invoice have to be registered as payed (payment deadline) at site of the business owner. invoicePositions: type: array items: $ref: '#/definitions/CustomerInvoicePosition' description: Represents an invoice of a customer. CustomerInvoicePosition: type: object properties: shopOrderNo: type: string example: '20180303_123' description: 'Deprecated: will be replaced by shopOrderNumber in a future version.' shopOrderNumber: type: string example: '20180303_123' shopArticleNo: type: string example: 100-0001 description: 'Deprecated: will be replaced by shopArticleNumber in a future version.' shopArticleNumber: type: string example: 100-0001 quantity: type: integer format: int32 example: 10 salesItemNet: type: number format: double example: 1 salesItemGross: type: number format: double example: 1.19 chargeNet: type: number format: double example: 0 chargeGross: type: number format: double example: 0 description: Represents an invoice position of an invoice of a customer. CustomerOrder: type: object properties: id: type: integer format: int32 example: 10000 description: The order identifier. shopOrderNo: type: string example: '20180303_123' description: 'The order number as used by the shop. Deprecated: will be replaced by shopOrderNumber in a future version.' shopOrderNumber: type: string example: '20180303_123' description: The order number as used by the shop. shopCustomerOrderNo: type: string example: '20180303_123' description: 'The order number as given from the customer of the shop. Deprecated: will be replaced by shopCustomerOrderNumber in a future version.' shopCustomerOrderNumber: type: string example: '20180303_123' description: The order number as given from the customer of the shop. paymentProviderOrderNo: type: string example: '20180303_123' description: 'The order number as used by the payment service provider. Deprecated: will be replaced by paymentProviderOrderNumber in a future version.' paymentProviderOrderNumber: type: string example: '20180303_123' description: The order number as used by the payment service provider. shopOrderCreationDate: type: string format: date-time example: '2018-02-27T09:15:37.562+02:00' description: The date when the order was created at the shop. paymentMethod: type: string example: credit card description: The name of the payment method. shopSubTotalGross: type: number format: double example: 11.9 description: The gross amount of the order positions (discounted order amount without charges) as given from the shop. shopSubTotalNet: type: number format: double example: 10 description: The net amount of the order positions (discounted order amount without charges) as given from the shop. shopTotalGross: type: number format: double example: 11.9 description: The gross amount of the order as given from the shop. shopTotalNet: type: number format: double example: 10 description: The net amount of the order as given from the shop. carrier: type: string example: DHL description: The name of the carrier. shopSubTotalGrossDiscounted: type: number format: double example: 11.9 description: The discounted gross amount of the order positions (discounted order amount without charges) as given from the shop. shopSubTotalNetDiscounted: type: number format: double example: 10 description: The discounted net amount of the order positions (discounted order amount without charges) as given from the shop. recalculatedShopSubTotalGrossDiscounted: type: number format: double example: 11.9 description: The discounted gross amount of the order positions (discounted order amount without charges) recalculated on cancellations. recalculatedShopSubTotalNetDiscounted: type: number format: double example: 10 description: The discounted net amount of the order positions (discounted order amount without charges) recalculated on cancellations. currency: type: string example: EUR description: The currency the amounts are listed in. orderPositions: type: array items: $ref: '#/definitions/CustomerOrderPosition' description: Represents an order of a customer. CustomerOrderPosition: type: object properties: shopArticleNo: type: string example: 100-0001 description: 'Deprecated: will be replaced by shopArticleNumber in a future version.' shopArticleNumber: type: string example: 100-0001 shopArticleName: type: string example: test_product_1 orderPosNo: type: integer format: int32 example: 1 description: 'Deprecated: will be replaced by orderPosNumber in a future version.' orderPosNumber: type: integer format: int32 example: 1 quantityCanceled: type: integer format: int32 example: 2 quantityOrdered: type: integer format: int32 example: 10 quantityReturned: type: integer format: int32 example: 2 returnDate: type: string format: date-time example: '2018-02-27T09:15:37.562+02:00' shopItemGross: type: number format: double shopItemNet: type: number format: double shopItemTax: type: number format: double shopPosGross: type: number format: double shopPosNet: type: number format: double shopPosTax: type: number format: double shopPosNetDiscounted: type: number format: double shopPosGrossDiscounted: type: number format: double shopUnit: type: string shopItemNetDiscounted: type: number format: double shopItemGrossDiscounted: type: number format: double quantityRefunded: type: integer format: int32 shippingAddress: $ref: '#/definitions/Address' description: Represents an order position of an order of a customer.

[Open ReDoc-rendered Open API documentation in separate window.](https://knowledge.intershop.com/rdd/Redoc-C29642.html)

## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.