---
id: '017b3c424bf75b8da90a3abe2388a209'
title: 'Viewing Replication Tasks'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/L33648'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:00.490198+00:00'
---
# Viewing Replication Tasks

The system administrator can

- view data replication tasks submitted by the data replication managers of the organizations working on the system,
- view comments that have been created by the respective data replication managers, or attach new comments,
- view the status history of replication tasks,
- discard data replication tasks,
- undo or redo failed replication tasks.

To view all replication tasks that have been submitted by data replication managers:

-
Select Data Replication | Data Replication Tasks.
The list that is displayed can be filtered by the following task states:
Table 1. Replication Task States Task State Description Waiting All replication tasks whose start data has been reached but whose execution has not been started. In Progress All replication tasks whose execution has started Completed All replication tasks that have been executed successfully Failed All replication tasks whose execution has failed. Pending All replication tasks whose start date has not been reached. Obsolete All replication tasks that have been discarded, either by the system administrator or by the respective data replication manager. Note:The status of a replication task is updated by the scheduled job*ReplicationTaskStateSynchronization*, which belongs to the SLDSystem site. Depending on the configuration of this job, the state of a replication task may not change immediately after the event triggering the transition to another state took place. - Click a replication task in the list to view its details, including the status history.