---
id: '024b81a02c94fa9ee74098af3343344f'
title: 'Job'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2952A1'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:38:00.472351+00:00'
---
Name | UpdateTrackEvents |
|---|---|
Domain | root |
Job Dependencies | none |
AcquiredResources | Named Resources: MARKETING_ABTestStatistics |
Cartridge | bc_marketing |
Pipeline | CleanABTestEvents-Update |
Affected Domain Objects | |
Affected Tables | ABTESTEVENT, ABTESTGROUP, ABTESTSTATISTICS, ABTEST |
Stored Procedure | none |
Default State | Enabled |
Is Site Specific | False |
Edit State | Globally Enabled |
Live State | Locally Enabled |
Description | Calculate A/B test statistics based on generated A/B test events for every A/B test group. |
Scheduling | Depending on the targeted accuracy a job interval of one hour or more |
What Happens Switched Off | Statistic information for every A/B test that is "In Progress" or "Closed" will not be available. |
Trouble Shooting | |
Comments | This job collects all generated events from the table ABTestEvents which have an expired session ID. The results are written into the table ABTestStatistics aggregated by A/B testgroup. You can execute the job periodically. Already processed A/B test events will not be processed again. The clean up job will remove outdated A/B test events later on. |

Product Version | 7.0 |
|---|---|
Product To Version | |
| Status |

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.