---
id: '03987d9e60db6f3431b070060ff9ec23'
title: 'Managing Products Within Catalog Categories'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32N354'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:19.357470+00:00'
---
# Managing Products Within Catalog Categories

Category pages that include products display a list of the assigned products. These product lists provide a number of product editing functions.

## Editing Products Within Catalog Categories

Certain product editing tasks can be performed on multiple products at once via batch processes. These tasks include:

-
Update Standard Product Attributes (Product Status, Availability, Order Quantity, ...)

-
Update/Create Custom Product Attribute

-
Delete Custom Product Attribute

-
Assign Products to Catalog Category

-
Assign Products to Classification Catalog Category

-
Assign Product/Category Links

-
Unassign Product/Category Links

-
Copy Products

-
Delete Products

-
Assign Label

-
Replicate Products to another Intershop Commerce Management cluster

-
Export to CSV


To edit products in batch mode:

-
Select the products you want to edit.
Select the checkboxes of the intended products in the list view and click the Edit Selected button. Alternatively, click the Edit All button to apply the modifications to all products within the current category.
-
Select the task and click Next.
This starts different sequences depending on the task to be performed.Note:Batch processing is not designed for mass data handling. If you need to update large data sets, it is recommended to use the import functionality instead.Depending on the type and the configuration of the Intershop Commerce Management system and the amount of data to be changed, a bulk operation (e.g., batch processes, import and export processes, audit reports) may cause negative effects on the system performance or the data consistency. Contact your Intershop Commerce Management system administrator before triggering such a bulk operation.

## Assigning Products

To add products to the current category:

-
Click Add.
This displays all products in the channel repository.
-
Select the products you want to assign to the category.
You can either browse through the list or perform a search to narrow the choice. Select checkboxes of the intended products.
-
Click OK to assign the selected products to the current category.
Otherwise, click Cancel to discard your changes.

[Managing Catalog Category Assignments](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/topic_managing_catalog_category_assignments.html).

## Unassigning Products

-
Select the products you want to unassign.
Select the checkboxes of the intended products in the list view.
-
Click Unassign, and confirm the operation.
The selected products are unassigned from the current category.Tip:Using Unassign All invalidates all product assignments to the current category, without having to select individual products.
You can also unassign products individually from catalog categories. For details, see

[Managing Catalog Category Assignments](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/topic_managing_catalog_category_assignments.html).

## Manually Sorting Products

[Manual Sorting](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/topic_manual_sorting_standard_catalog_management.html#task_pim_cat_mnlSort).