---
id: '04235be25f19ee72a5773d90ba8fd1d1'
title: 'Guide - Intershop PWA'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3136E7'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:12.899533+00:00'
---
The accessibility checklist is designed to assist developers, visual and interaction designers, requirements engineers, and projects in preventing and identifying accessibility issues.

These checks address only a few accessibility concerns and are intended to be quick and simple rather than thorough.

A web page or component may appear to meet these criteria while still containing significant accessibility barriers.

A more in-depth evaluation is required for a comprehensive accessibility assessment.

The checklist covers essential aspects of web accessibility and should be used:

When creating interaction and visual design: Ensure designs meet accessibility standards from the outset and maintain consistent interactions to avoid confusion.

During development and code reviews: Verify that code complies with accessibility best practices and standards.

When analyzing existing shops or agency deliverables: Evaluate the accessibility of existing pages or submissions.

For more general information about accessibility in the PWA, see [Accessibility](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/g/intershop/intershop-pwa/blob/develop/docs/guides/accessibility.md).

For design-specific patterns and decisions, refer to [Accessibility in UX: Patterns and Rationale](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/g/intershop/intershop-pwa/blob/develop/docs/guides/accessibility-ux-pattern.md).

Performing any of the following checks on a web page will give you a basic understanding of its accessibility.

**1. Zoom**

Some people need to enlarge content in order to read it.

When content is zoomed using the browser's zoom functionality, it must still be legible and usable:

**2. Page Title**

Page titles are the first thing screen readers read and help people know where they are.

They describe the content of a website in a concise and appropriate way, and are composed of the individual title of a page, e.g., "About Us" or "News," and a general description of the website, e.g., the company name.

They can be set in the [Angular Routing Modules](https://v17.angular.io/guide/router#setting-the-page-title).

**3. Headings**

Headings communicate the organization of the content on the page.

Screen reader users often use page headings as a way to navigate a web page.

`<h1>`

level heading giving the title of the page. **4. Correct Messaging and Feedback**

Users need to know what is going on and receive appropriate feedback as they interact.

Many users with motor disabilities rely on a keyboard.

Ensure that all interactive elements and controls are keyboard accessible and the user can navigate the entire page without being "trapped".

`tabindex="0"`

to ensure an element can receive keyboard focus. **6. Tab Navigation Order**

The keyboard navigation order must be logical and intuitive, with the focus moving consistently across the page.

This generally means that it follows the visual flow of the page, left to right, top to bottom.

For best results:

For keyboard users, it is crucial to always know which element (such as a link or form control) has focus.

The focus indicator must be clearly visible on each interactive element.

Color contrast refers to the difference between adjacent colors.

Typically, this is the text and background color.

Some people cannot read text or find elements if there is insufficient contrast between colors.

The contrast between text and background should be above 4.5:1.

The [Color Contrast Analyzer](https://developer.paciellogroup.com/color-contrast-checker/) is a tool that allows you to measure the contrasts.

**9. Use of Color (WCAG 1.4.1)**

People with partial sight often experience limited color vision.

Therefore, do not use color as the only visual means of conveying information, indicating an action, prompting a response, or distinguishing a visual element.

Provide visual cues other than color (such as underlining for links) to clarify the usage of interactive elements.

**10. Touch Target Size (WCAG 2.5.8)**

Using larger target sizes (e.g., for links or buttons) will help many people use targets more easily, especially if they use special input devices.

**11. Use of Correct HTML Elements and Semantic Structure of the Page**

Use the correct HTML elements for their intended function and meaning (e.g., headlines for headings, paragraphs for text blocks, links for navigation, buttons for actions, lists for listings, tables for data, etc.).

Employ HTML5 semantic elements (e.g., landmark elements `<header>`

, `<nav>`

, `<main>`

, `<footer>`

) to provide meaningful structure to the content.

Semantic elements help screen readers and assistive technologies better understand the layout and purpose of the page, improving the browsing experience for users with disabilities and improving search engine optimization (SEO).

**12. Enhanced HTML Markup**

Use ARIA attributes to enhance accessibility and to provide additional context where native HTML elements are insufficient.

Use additional attributes to enhance and describe elements if they do not contain text.

Image alternative text ("alt text") is used by people who cannot see the image.

It is a short description that conveys the purpose of a functional or informational image.

**14. Functional Images**

A functional image is connected to an action.

In addition to alternative text, the element should include a title or aria-label attribute to specify the action that will be triggered.

**15. Decorative Images**

A decorative image is a visual element that adds no additional context or information that allows the user to better understand the context.

It must be programmatically hidden from assistive technologies by:

**16. Labels**

Form field labels should tell us what information to enter or what checkbox to select.

Ensure that all form elements have associated and visible labels to provide context to users, especially those who rely on assistive technologies.

If not, add the appropriate ARIA attribute.

**17. Required Fields**

Marking which fields are required in a form makes it easier for everyone to complete forms.

If projects are migrating to the PWA 6.0.0 or customizing the PWA, the following additional checks may be helpful.

Note: Project customizations such as styling adaptions, new or changed components, etc., may require additional checks to ensure WCAG 2.2 compliance.

A skip link is the first interactive element on a page.

Users of keyboards, screen readers, and other assistive technologies can use skip links to quickly and easily access the main content of a page.

Specifying the language of a page enables assistive technologies that read content aloud to pronounce words correctly.

An accessibility statement declares that a website has been designed and developed to be accessible to people with disabilities.

It states that the website meets certain standards for usability, such as the WCAG.

Intershop recommends creating the accessibility statement as a CMS page and adding a link to it in the CMS-managed footer.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.