---
id: '04417b5a8afcb2279ee5148b5c15c8f6'
title: 'Moving BME_Catalog_ID to Improve BMECatalog Import'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/31182N'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:23.752176+00:00'
---
During BMECat import all imported products get the information of the corresponding BMECat catalog. This information was stored as product custom attribute *BME_Catalog_ID,* which is stored in an XML structure in the product table *attributes* column. Executing a SQL query with a condition in an XML structure is slow.

The attribute which stores the *BMECatalogID* has been moved to a native product table column ([DCA](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1775683678/Cookbook+-+DCA+Direct+Custom+Attribute)) called *BMECatalogID*. Using a native table column improves the performance of the BMECatalog import. When a new version of the same catalog is imported, the BMECatalog import identifies the products related to the previous BMECatalog import and deletes them. Since the custom attribute `BME_Catalog_ID`

is now a [direct custom attribute (DCA)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1775683678/Cookbook+-+DCA+Direct+Custom+Attribute), accessing it from the storefront, back office, via REST (via the [ORM layer](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1773243877)) has not changed. But queries in an ICM customization, which access the value of `BME_Catalog_ID`

directly, must be changed. All ICM standard queries accessing `BME_Catalog_ID`

were changed.

All existing BMECat products in the database are automatically migrated in the DBPrepare (DBMigrate). Depending on the number of entries, this process might take several minutes.

All standard queries that deal with BMECat imported products have been adjusted. In case there are custom queries which access the `BME_Catalog_ID`

directly in a SQL statement, it is necessary to replace the former custom attribute `BME_CATALOG_ID`

in query conditions with `Product.BMECATALOGID`

.

Example query before migration:

<sql-dialect name="Microsoft"> DECLARE @queryValue VARCHAR(300); SET @queryValue = <template-variable value="CatalogID" /> </sql-dialect> SELECT p.uuid, count(*) over() as "ROWCOUNT" FROM product p WHERE p.DomainID=<template-variable value="DomainUUID"/> <sql-dialect name="Oracle"> AND contains(p.attributes, <template-variable value="CatalogID" />||' INPATH (/attrs/attr[@name="BME_CATALOG_ID"]/string)')>0 </sql-dialect> <sql-dialect name="Microsoft"> AND p.attributes.exist('//attrs/attr[@name="BME_CATALOG_ID"]/string [contains(., sql:variable("@queryValue"))]') = 1 </sql-dialect>

Example query after migration:

SELECT p.uuid, count(*) over() as "ROWCOUNT" FROM product p WHERE p.DomainID=<template-variable value="DomainUUID"/> AND p.BMECATALOGID=<template-variable value="CatalogID"/>

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.