---
id: '068dcd578627df80d0c3b6878b4ade6b'
title: 'Defining Promotion Targets'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32V636'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:06.878445+00:00'
---
# Defining Promotion Targets

Each promotion can be targeted at:

-
Individually selected customers,

-
A specific customer segment, or

-
Customer segments associated with affiliate partners or affiliate partner programs


When enabled, the promotion is applied to all items assigned to the target group.

Target groups are managed on the Target Group tab in the promotion details view. Here you can add/remove items to/from the target group.

## Adding Items to the Target Group

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Marketing | Promotions.
This displays the list of all promotions in the current sales channel.
-
Click the name of a promotion to view its details.
This opens the General tab of the detail view.
-
Select the Target Group tab.
The tab shows all customers, customer segments, and affiliates currently assigned to the promotion.
-
Click Assign in one of the three target group member categories.
A list of items belonging to the category along with check boxes is displayed. The list of customers includes all customers that are currently registered with the selected sales channel.The list of customer segments contains predefined segments (e.g., all registered customers, or all new customers) and user-defined segments.Note:The list of affiliate partners contains all partners that have been defined for the sales channel.In order to be able to assign customer segments as a target group, at least one segmentation service must be configured for the sales channel, see
[Customer Segments](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/customer_management/concept_customer_segments.html). - Select the check box next to the items you want to add to the target group of the promotion, then click Assign.

## Removing Items from the Target Group

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Marketing | Promotions.
This displays the list of all promotions in the current sales channel.
-
Click the name of a promotion to view its details.
This opens the General tab of the detail view.
-
Select the Target Group tab.
The tab shows all customers, customer segments, and affiliates currently assigned to the promotion.Note:This tab shows only customer segments that are provided by an active segmentation service. If a given service is deactivated, all customer segments it provides are removed as target groups.
- Select the items you wish to remove, then click Unassign.
-
Click OK to confirm the requested action.
The items will be unassigned from the promotion, and removed from the target group list.