---
id: '06f37863f2e28dc81dfdffe096a04bb2'
title: 'Editing Order Details'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/41234R'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:30:33.975416+00:00'
---
# Editing Order Details

Editing order details includes adding a shipping/invoice address or changing the payment method.

## Adding a New Address

While in a contact session with at least one item in the open cart, you can add a new address for the current customer.

To do so:

- Switch to the Quick order tab.
-
Click the desired address field (Shipping address and/or Invoice address).
This opens the address list.Note:The address list displays all addresses of the corresponding type for the current customer. An address can be both a shipping address and an invoice address.
-
Click Add new address.
This displays an empty address form.
-
Specify the address details as required and click Add.
If you tick
*This is a shipping address*or*This is an invoice address*, the respective address will be selected automatically.To set the address as the (new) preferred address for new carts, tick*This is the preferred shipping address*.

## Selecting an Existing Address

While in a contact session with at least one item in the open cart, you can select another shipping address or invoice address for an order.

To do so:

- Switch to the Quick order tab.
-
Click the corresponding address field (Shipping address or Invoice address).
This opens the address list.Note:The address list displays all addresses of the corresponding type for the current customer. An address can be both a shipping address and an invoice address.Tip:The address can also be changed using the link next to a line item (does not apply to digital products). This allows for selecting different addresses for different line items.
-
Select the intended address from the list.
This sets the address and closes the list.

## Selecting a Payment Method

The Payment method field is only visible in a contact session with at least one item in the open cart. You can only select payment methods that are configured for the Intershop Customer Engagement Center, which are by default:

- Cash on Delivery
- Direct Debit Transfer
- Invoice

To select a payment method for a cart:

-
Open the Quick order dialog, see
[Accessing Orders](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iap/master/cec_en/cec/managing_orders/task_accessing_orders.html). -
Click the Payment method field.
This opens the payment method list.Note:With a new cart or order, the field shows "No payment method selected" if the customer has not defined a preferred payment method at the storefront. Otherwise, the preferred payment method is selected.
-
Select the intended payment method from the list.
This sets the payment method and closes the list.

## Adding a New Bank Connection (Direct Debit Transfer)

In a contact session with an open cart, you can add a new bank connection for the direct debit transfer.

To do so:

- Switch to the Quick order tab.
-
Click the Payment method field.
This opens the payment method list.
-
Select Direct debit transfer from the list.
This displays the bank connection form.
-
Specify IBAN and if necessary BIC in the corresponding fields, and click Add.
This immediately selects this bank connection for the current cart and closes the form.Tip:Additionally, selecting Save for later purchases saves the bank connection for future use.

## Selecting a Shipping Method

The Intershop Customer Engagement Center has predefined default shipping methods, for example *Standard Ground*. You can, however, individually select another eligible shipping method for each cart item.

To do so:

- Open the Quick order tab.
-
In the row of the corresponding cart item, click the desired shipping method.
This opens the list of eligible shipping methods.
-
Select the intended shipping method from the list.
This sets the shipping method and closes the list.

## Selecting a Cost Center

If a B2B customer is assigned to at least one cost center, you have to select a cost center for the cart before placing the order.

To do so:

-
Switch to the Quick order tab, see
[Accessing Orders](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iap/master/cec_en/cec/managing_orders/task_accessing_orders.html). -
Click the Cost center field.
Note:This field is only visible in contact sessions with a B2B customer.This opens the
*Select cost center*dialog. -
Select a cost center from the list.
This selects the cost center for the B2B customer and closes the
*Select cost center*dialog.