---
id: '06fef2b9f701ea6a2d65ce46b392df55'
title: 'Video Tutorial - Intershop Studio (IStudio) Part 3'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/28477K'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:38:38.830374+00:00'
---
Info

The Intershop Studio, based on Eclipse, is the main development tool for the Intershop 7 platform. It offers an IDE for all development relevant tasks and assets like cartridges, pipelines, templates, pagelets, queries, and many more.

Intershop Studio allows you to customize code for your application to meet business requirements and processes.

The tutorial series contains several topics like:

Part 3 of 3 gives you a short overview of how to work with the Pipeline Debugger in Intershop Studio. The Pipeline Debugger allows the developer to track the execution of a pipeline step by step in order to locate errors precisely. The Pipeline Debugger, unlike standard programming language debuggers, operates on the pipeline rather than the source code level.

Info

*
*

Select *Toggle pipeline node breakpoint*.

As soon as the pipeline will be executed, the breakpoint stops the process for debug purposes.

Go to *Debug Configurations...*.

Enter a name.

The connection configuration is automatically inserted by the *intershop.properties* file. If this is not the case, please check your settings.

As you can see in the screenshot below, the perspective has changed from *Cartridge Development* to *Pipeline Debug*.


Click *Step Over* or press the *F6* key to let the pipeline poll the next step until it reaches the end of the pipeline.


The progress is displayed in both the browser window and Intershop Studio.

When reaching the end of the pipeline, finish the debug process by right-click on *debug [pipeline debugger] | **Terminate and Remove* | *Yes*.

The debug process needs to be finished by termination. Otherwise the debugging will execute every time.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.