---
id: '072e539ff7ee6572fa1f98d601314665'
title: 'Overview'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/31441B'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:38:11.420978+00:00'
---
The present page serves as an overview for the topic. All available documents for the topic can be found here.

The Intershop Integration Hub is a powerful and versatile integration platform as a service (iPaaS) product designed to simplify the integration of various applications, systems, and data sources, including typical systems of record such as ERP, CRM, and PIM. With the high cost of integration often taking up to 60% of the budget of e-commerce projects, the Intershop Integration Hub is designed to streamline the integration process and reduce costs while delivering multiple benefits to organizations, including improved speed and efficiency, scalability, improved data quality, reduced risk, and cost savings. The integration hub leverages low-code technology with configuration, allowing for fast and efficient integration without the need for expensive programming. Its intuitive and user-friendly interface makes it easy for organizations to connect and automate their business processes, reducing manual effort and increasing efficiency. This documentation provides all the information you need to effectively use the Intershop Integration Hub and make the most of its many capabilities for integrating your ERP, CRM, and PIM systems, while enjoying the benefits of improved integration and cost savings.

| Title | Owner | Product To Version | Product Type | Product Version |
|---|---|---|---|---|
|

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.