---
id: '0856af7e39084d971fbe0655deadf913'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/28E587'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:38:08.730513+00:00'
---
This document gives an overview about the Intershop 7 *Order Status Import*. The principle focus of the *Order Status Import* is to provide a way to external systems (e.g., ERP system) to update an order in Intershop 7, so that it reflects the current processing state. The *Order Status Import* is used to update the status of orders, including:

In contrast to previous Enfinity Suite 6.x versions, Intershop 7 does not use identical XML schemata for *Order Export* and *Order Status Import*. The reason for this is that Intershop 7 does not implement a real import of orders neither created by other Intershop 7 instances nor by any external systems.

For exporting orders in Intershop 7 see:

Some of the status values which are described below are based on the Intershop 7 eCommerce reference process and only reflect a demo scenario. They are not mandatory to run the system. Status values which are created by the Intershop 7 system or which the system is dealing with (processes based on it) are in bold type. Other status values are only listed due to backward compatibility reasons.

Basically, every Intershop 7 customer has the freedom to use its own status values within its own project.

The following order status values are supported in Intershop 7 by default. Listed order status values are based on the definitions of the *StateGroup* `'OrderStatus'`

.

Note

There are some state values that are either not used in Intershop 7 anymore or that are only used for internal processing.

| Order Status | Status ID | Numeric Code | Used in Order Status Import | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
created | CREATED | 0 | The merely internal state an order has for a very short time after its creation. Note This status value is only an internal setting that should not be set in the context of the | |
pending | PENDING | 2 | The order is waiting for payment. | |
new | NEW | 3 | The order creation has been finished, but has not been exported by the Note This status is set internally only as a result of a | |
| (open) | (OPEN) | (4) | This status is for backward compatibility reasons only. It is no longer used by Intershop 7. | |
| completed | COMPLETED | 5 | X | This status is for backward compatibility reasons only. It is no longer used by Intershop 7. Order handling is completely finished. This means that ordered items have been shipped to the customer and:
Note Intershop 7 provides no out of the box capability to mark an order completed. COMPLETED is only a theoretical status of the Intershop 7 eCommerce reference process and used for a demo scenario. |
cancelled | CANCELLED | 6 | The order has been cancelled by the customer in the web shop storefront, but has not been exported by the Note This status may also be set by | |
| (rejected) | (REJECTED) | (7) | This status is for backward compatibility reasons only. It is no longer used by Intershop 7. | |
in progress | INPROGRESS | 8 | The order has been exported by the Note This status is set by the | |
cancelled and exported | CANCELLEDANDEXPORTED | 9 | The order has been cancelled by the customer in the web shop storefront. After cancellation, the order has been exported. Note This status is set internally only as a result of an
| |
| not deliverable | NOTDELIVERABLE | 10 | X | This status is for backward compatibility reasons only. It is no longer used by Intershop 7. The order is not deliverable for any reason, e.g., incomplete or wrong address data. Note Intershop 7 provides no out of the box capability to mark an order as not deliverable. NOTDELIVERABLE is only a theoretical status of the Intershop 7 eCommerce reference process and used for a demo scenario.
|
| delivered | DELIVERED | 11 | X | This status is for backward compatibility reasons only. It is no longer used by Intershop 7. Ordered items have been delivered to the customer. Note Intershop 7 provides no out of the box capability to mark an order as delivered. DELIVERED is only a theoretical status of the Intershop 7 eCommerce reference process and used for a demo scenario.
|
| returned | RETURNED | 12 | X | This status is for backward compatibility reasons only. It is no longer used by Intershop 7. Ordered items have been returned by the customer. Note Intershop 7 provides no out of the box capability to mark an order as returned. RETURNED is only a theoretical status of the Intershop 7 eCommerce reference process and used for a demo scenario.
|
export failed | EXPORTFAILED | 13 | This status is not used in Note This status is set internally only as a result of a failed | |
payment cancelled | PAYMENTCANCELLED | 15 | The order has been cancelled due to a payment cancellation at an external provider page. | |
| manual intervention needed | MANUAL_INTERVENTION_NEEDED | 16 | This may occur only if multiple payments are used to pay the order total amount. In the rare case that all payments are successful except the last one, the rollback of the successful payments is initiated. That means, the system tries to CANCEL, REDUCE or REFUND the payments. If this process is not supported/feasible or fails, the order is set to MANUAL_INTERVENTION_NEEDED and an administrator has to check and complete/void the payments manually. |

The highlighted status values are created by Intershop 7 by default. Further order status values are not supported by default, because Intershop 7 does not provide any kind of further order management functionality. They must be implemented by the customer project itself.

In the following chart, the status transition of the Intershop 7 order statuses is shown. Imported status values and status values which are not created by Intershop 7 itself are not covered here.

The following line item status values are supported in Intershop 7 by default. The listed line item (fulfillment) status values are based on the definitions of the *StateGroup* `'SellerOrderProductLineItemStatus'`

.

Note

There are some status values that are either not used in Intershop 7 anymore or that are only used for internal processing. Some line item statuses are obviously the same like the order statuses after an operation. However, this must be not mandatory.

For instance: If the whole order will be cancelled, the order gets the status *cancelled* as well as the line item. If only one line item is cancelled, only the line item but not the whole order gets the *cancelled* status.

| Line Item Status | Status ID | Numeric Code | Used in Order Status Import | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
new | NEW | 10 | Order creation has been finished, but has not been exported by the Order Export yet. The order gets the status NEW as well as the line item itself. | |
| (confirmed) | (CONFIRMED) | (11) | This status is for backward compatibility reasons only. It is no longer used by Intershop 7. | |
| (partly shipped) | (PARTSHIPPED) | (12) | This status is for backward compatibility reasons only. It is no longer used by Intershop 7. | |
| (shipped) | (SHIPPED) | (13) | This status is for backward compatibility reasons only. It is no longer used by Intershop 7. | |
| (rejected) | (REJECTED) | (14) | This status is for backward compatibility reasons only. It is no longer used by Intershop 7. | |
| partly delivered | PARTDELIVERED | 20 | This status is for backward compatibility reasons only. It is no longer used by Intershop 7. Note Intershop 7 provides no out of the box capability to set a line item as partly delivered. PARTDELIVERED is only a theoretical status of the Intershop 7 eCommerce reference process and used for a demo scenario. | |
| delivered | DELIVERED | 21 | This status is for backward compatibility reasons only. It is no longer used by Intershop 7. Note Intershop 7 provides no out of the box capability to set a line item as delivered. DELIVERED is only a theoretical status of the Intershop 7 eCommerce reference process and used for a demo scenario. | |
cancelled | CANCELLED | 22 | The order has been cancelled by the customer in the web shop storefront, but has not been exported by Note Intershop 7 provides no out of the box capability to cancel a single line item and to set a single line item as cancelled. In the default Intershop 7 process the line item will be cancelled if the whole order is cancelled. | |
in progress | INPROGRESS | 23 | The order was exported by Note This status is set by the | |
cancelled and exported | CANCELLEDANDEXPORTED | 24 | The order has been cancelled by the customer in the web shop storefront. After cancellation, the order has been exported, e.g., due to marketing issues. This means that each single line item also gets the status CANCELLEDANDEXPORTED. Note This status is set by the |

The following payment transaction status values are supported in Intershop 7 by default. The listed order status values are based on the definitions of the *StateGroup* `'PaymentTransaction'`

.

Note

There are some state values that are either not used in Intershop 7 anymore or that are only used for internal processing.

| Payment Transaction Status | Status ID | Numeric Code | Used in Order Status Import | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
created | CREATED | 0 | This is only an internal status the payment transaction has for a very short time after its creation. Note This status value is only an internal setting that should not be set in the context of the Order Status Import. | |
authorized | AUTHORIZED | 1 | The payment amount is reserved, but is not booked yet. Note This status is set internally only by payment services. | |
| (partly captured) | (PARTCAPTURED) | (2) | (X) | This status is currently not used by Intershop 7. |
captured | CAPTURED | 3 | X | The payment amount is booked. |
voided authorization | VOIDEDAUTHORIZATION | 4 | X | An authorized transaction is cancelled. |
| (voided capture) | (VOIDEDCAPTURE) | (5) | This status is currently not used by Intershop 7. | |
| (marked) | (MARKED) | (6) | This status is currently not used by Intershop 7. | |
| (settled) | (SETTLED) | (7) | This status is currently not used by Intershop 7. | |
| (refunded) | (REFUNDED) | (8) | This status is currently not used by Intershop 7. | |
| (voided authorization failed) | (VOIDEDAUTHORIZATION_FAILED) | (9) | This status is currently not used by Intershop 7. | |
| (refund failed) | (REFUND_FAILED) | (10) | This status is currently not used by Intershop 7. |

The statuses 5 - 10 are not used.

The XML schema for the *Order Status Import* is created from annotated Java classes using JAXB annotations (`javax.xml.bind.annotation.*`

). The schema is generated by the Gradle tools during build process and published to the *${IS_SHARE}/system/impex/schema* folder as a result of the Intershop 7 setup.

For details regarding the schema and the individual tags, take a look at [Reference - Order Fulfillment Status Import](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1896908309/Reference+-+Order+Fulfillment+Status+Import). There you can also find the complete XSD file and a complete sample import file.

To enable the order status import, perform the following steps:

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.