---
id: '0919240332b2e1aeb5889e173a2158e8'
title: 'Managing Classifications'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3227F5'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:43.081990+00:00'
---
# Managing Classifications

Products can be included in classification catalogs. Intershop Commerce Management provides out-of-the-box support for the classification standards ecl@ss and UN/SPSC. In addition, sales organizations can define custom classification catalogs.

To manage classification assignments for a product:

-
Locate the product for which you want to manage classification assignments.
For details, see
[Locating Products](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/task_locating_products.html). -
Click the name of the product.
The General tab of the Standard Product dialog is displayed.
-
Change to the Classifications tab.
This displays assignments to categories of standard classifications (ecl@ss and UN/SPSC) and any custom classification that may have been defined.
-
To define a category assignment, click Assign.
Click Unassign to invalidate an assignment. Click on the classification category to edit the assignment settings.
-
Provide a valid classification code. Alternatively, select a category from the drop-down list and click the Select button. This displays valid sub-categories of the selected category. Continue until you reach a category with no sub-category.
The list of classification attributes is displayed.
-
Provide values for classification attributes.
Note:Classification attributes define a set of attributes which products assigned to a certain category are supposed to have. Only classification attributes for which values are defined are copied onto the product.