---
id: '0ae46dbff0413ba055b33fc32f7ae6ac'
title: 'Setting Product Online Status'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/323B69'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:11.774093+00:00'
---
# Setting Product Online Status

Products can be online or offline. An offline product is not visible to any other user, except catalog administrators. The product online status can be set either directly from the product list view or via the Standard Product dialog, which also allows to set the online/offline time.

[Managing Variation Products](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/task_managing_variation_products.html).

## Setting Online Status in List View

To set the online status in the product list view, specifying the validity:

-
Select the intended management context from the context selection box, then select Catalogs | Products.
This displays the product list view.
-
Click the icon in the row of the product(s) you intend to set offline.
This immediately switches the online status to offline without time restrictions (validity = always).

## Setting Online Status in Detail View

To set the online status in the product detail view, specifying the validity:

-
Locate the product that you want to set online or offline.
For details, see
[Locating Products](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/task_locating_products.html). -
Click the name of the product.
The General tab of the Standard Product dialog is displayed.
- Select the Online/Offline tab.
- In the Status field, set Online or Offline as value.
-
Specify the validity of the selected status.
The validity specifies the time that the selected status will be applied to the product. Select one of the two options, either Limited Period or Always. If you select Limited Period, you must set a start and an end time specifying the exact date and time in the corresponding fields.