---
id: '0b57155bf39efed77505185afc481b5b'
title: 'Locking Page Templates'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32470E'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:50.504139+00:00'
---
# Locking Page Templates

Before editing a page template, you should lock the page template. Locking prevents the page template from being edited by other users in parallel. The page template lock can be released manually. It is released automatically after the configured lock interval has expired. For details about how to configure the page template lock interval, see [Defining Content Lock Period](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/operation_maintenance/task_defining_content_lock_period.html).

Basically, there are two ways to lock page templates: either directly from the page template list or tree, or via the Page Template detail view.

## Locking Page Templates in List/Tree View

-
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Page Templates.
This opens the Page Templates tree view.
-
Click the icon in the row of the page template(s) you intend to edit.
An error message appears if the page template is currently edited by another user.

## Locking Page Templates in Detail View

-
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Page Templates.
This opens the Page Templates tree view.
-
Click the name or ID of the page template you intend to edit.
This opens the Content tab of the detail view.
-
Click the icon at the dialog top.
An error message appears if the page template is currently edited by another user.