---
id: '0b6cb3a735f2f3f92ceafff5e5145456'
title: 'Managing Promotion Codes'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/326K42'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:08.442663+00:00'
---
# Managing Promotion Codes

Managing promotion codes comprises the following tasks:

-
Searching promotion codes

The promotion code search allows to search for promotion codes or cashback promotion codes. This can be useful to check the validity or the assignment of a promotion code:

-
Enabling promotion codes

As described in

[Online Marketing Management: Concepts](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/online_marketing/topic_online_marketing_management_concepts.html), promotions can be either implicit or explicit. If you want to run an explicit promotion, you have to enable the usage of promotion codes and assign them to the promotion: -
Creating promotion code groups

A promotion code group is a container for promotion codes. A promotion code group can be assigned to a single or multiple promotions:

-
Creating promotion codes and assigning them to promotion code groups

After creating a promotion code group you need to provide it with promotion codes. This can either be done manually, via bulk action or via import (as CSV file):

Upon creation, the system automatically assigns promotion codes to the promotion code group you are currently editing.


-
Specifying a target group for a promotion code group

Each promotion code group needs a target group. You can either use the target group of the promotion the promotion code group is assigned to or you can define a target group specifically for a promotion code group:

Note:To be able to assign customer segments as a target group, at least one segmentation service must be configured for the sales channel, see[Customer Segments](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/customer_management/concept_customer_segments.html). -
Associating promotion code groups with promotions

After creating promotion codes, you need to tell a promotion to accept the promotion codes for redemption. This is done by associating the containing promotion code group with one or more promotions:

-
Deactivating and deleting promotion codes

After some time running a promotion you may want to delete promotion codes that are already redeemed by customers to clean up your system.

Also, in case of fraud or any other misuse of promotion codes in circulation, you might want to quickly invalidate either all or some of the distributed codes.

To deactivate or delete promotion codes, you have two options: