---
id: '0cc586c989d4b44dcbc3de15ebd03799'
title: 'Public Release Note'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3G0132'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:38:43.247850+00:00'
---
Welcome to the IOM Helm Charts 2.0.

IOM is delivered via Docker images which are dedicated to run in Kubernetes. Intershop also provides Helm Charts for IOM, which allow to easily operate IOM.

For the best compatibility between IOM Helm charts and IOM, please always use the newest version of IOM Helm charts, regardless of the IOM version you are currently using. To do so, please update IOM Helm charts as often as possible.

| Helm \ IOM | 3.0 | 3.1 | 3.2 | 3.3 | 3.4 | 3.5 | 3.6 | 3.7 | 4.0 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 2.0.X | 1), 2), 3), 4), 5), 6), 7), 8) | 4), 6), 7), 8) | 5), 6), 7), 8) | 6), 7), 8) | 7), 8) | 8) | 9) | ||
| 1.6.X | 1), 2), 3), 4), 5), 6), 7), 8) | 4), 6), 7), 8) | 5), 6), 7), 8) | 6), 7), 8) | 7), 8) | 8) | 9) | x | |
| 1.5.X | 1), 2), 3), 4), 5), 6), 7), 8) | 4), 6), 7), 8) | 5), 6), 7), 8) | 6), 7), 8) | 7), 8) | 8) | x | x | |
| 1.4.X | 1), 2), 3), 4), 5), 6), 7) | 4), 6), 7) | 5), 6), 7) | 6), 7) | 7) | x | x | x | |
| 1.3.0 | 1), 2), 3), 4), 5), 6) | 4), 6) | 5), 6) | 6) | x | x | x | x | |
| 1.2.1 | 1), 2), 3), 4), 5) | 4), 5) | 5) | x | x | x | x | x | |
| 1.2.0 | 1), 2), 3), 4) | 4) | x | x | x | x | x | x | |
| 1.1.0 | 1) | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | |
| 1.0.0 | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x |


1) Defect [IOM-10458](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/IOM-10458) still occurs in this combination

2) Helm parameter for timeout of test-data import does not work in this combination

3) Helm parameter to control creation of access log does not work in this combination

4) Defect [IOM-10362](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/IOM-10362) still occurs in this combination

5) Defect [IOM-10891](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/IOM-10891) still occurs in this combination

6) Helm parameters to control Datadog APM do not work in this combination

7) Helm parameter `jboss.nodePrefix`

does not work in this combination

8) Helm parameters `log.rest, config.skip*`

*,* `oms.db.connectionMonitor.*`

, `oms.db.connectTimeout`

do not work in this combination.

9) Helm parameter `jboss.activemqClientPoolSizeMax`

does not work in this combination

x) Not supported

| Term | Description |
|---|---|
| Docker | An OS-level virtualization software. |
| Helm | A package manager for Kubernetes. |
| IOM | The abbreviation for Intershop Order Management |
| Kubernetes | An open-source system for automating deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications. |

IOM of version 4 and newer consists of a single image only. The functionality of the former config-image is now integrated into the only remaining IOM image. Reducing the number of images to one decreases operational efforts. Having a single image only makes it possible within Intershop Commerce Platform to trigger deployments by simply pushing the image. This huge architectural change has influenced IOM Helm charts.

Parameter group `startupProbe`

was newly added to observe the process of database initialization. As long as the startup probe is in progress, no liveness probes will be executed. This is essential, otherwise the relatively long duration of the database initialization (database creation, loading dump, execution of stored procedures, database migration, project configuration) would lead to a failed liveness probe, which would then lead to a pod restart. Finally, the system would be caught in an infinitive loop of starting and killing.

To avoid this behavior `startupProbe`

has to be configured to not finally fail before database initialization has ended. That means

`startupProbe.initialDelaySeconds + startupProbe.periodSeconds * startupProbe.failureThreshold`


has to be longer than the time needed for database initialization. The default values of these parameters are:

`startupProbe.initialDelaySeconds`

: 60`startupProbe.periodSeconds`

: 10`startupProbe.failureThreshold`

: 60

Applied to the equation shown above, the result is 660 seconds or 11 minutes. Hence, using the default values, any database initialization running longer than 11 minutes will be interrupted and the process will be started from the beginning. If your system needs more time for database initialization, you have to adapt the parameters. It is recommended to increase `startupProbe.failureThreshold`

only and to leave all other parameters unchanged.

The parameter group `config`

is used to control the IOM config-image, that was removed in IOM version 4. For this reason parameter-group `config`

got a new parameter `enabled`

that has the default value `false`

. The value `false`

has to be used when controlling IOM version 4 and newer. When using the Helm charts along with IOM version 4 or newer, you can safely remove the entire parameter group `config`

.

The different types of probes (`startupProbe`

, `livenessProbe`

, `readinessProbe`

) can now be enabled/disabled. Therefore, each kind of probe got the new parameter `enabled`

, which is set to `true`

by default.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.