---
id: '0d04bd72995738ec4dc9ed410c68ff6f'
title: 'Component Template Manager'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32M373'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:12.985947+00:00'
---
# Component Template Manager

The Component Template Manager is divided into two tabs: Tree View and List View.

The tree view shows a representation of the current site's component template structure. Using the tree view, content managers can lock user-generated component templates for editing () and copy a user-generated component template (). In addition, content managers can create new component templates or delete user-generated component templates using the New or Delete buttons.

Clicking the name of a component template in the tree view selects this component template as the parent when creating a new component template. Clicking the ID of a component template opens the component template detail view, which is divided into four tabs:

-
Content: displays the configurable parameters and the content components and placeholders assigned to the template (as provided by the type).

-
Assignments: lists the assigned page templates or component templates.

-
Properties: displays general component template settings like locale, name, ID, parent, active flag.

-
Labels: lists all labels assigned to the component template.


The list view shows the user-generated component templates in a plain list. Using the list view, content managers can search for the name or ID of component templates of a specific group or type. They can lock component templates for editing () and copy a component template (). In addition, content managers can create new component templates or delete component templates using the New or Delete buttons. Clicking the name or ID of a component template opens the component template detail view (see above).