---
id: '0e0e764e2f13bdb90f457630f66b2e56'
title: 'Guide - Intershop Order Management'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3114T7'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:30:22.157518+00:00'
---
The Intershop Order Management System (IOM) as a middle-ware for e-commerce combines the order processes used in all various channels. It takes incoming orders from all available channels and connects them with selected order fulfillment processes. Depending on configurations, these processes are individually managed for each combination of channels. In addition, it provides the customers with greater transparency on product availability, order status, and returns. Thus, it supports call center employees, warehouse employees, and business managers in their respective work-field.

This guide gives a technical overview of the Intershop Order Management System as well as the applied technical concepts and latest technology updates.

The main target group of this document are system administrators.

| Term | Description |
|---|---|
| GDPR | General Data Protection Regulation |
| HA | High availability |
| HTTP | Hypertext Transfer Protocol |
| HTTPS | Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure |
| IOM | The abbreviation for Intershop Order Management |
| JMS | Java Message Service |
| JSON | JavaScript Object Notation |
| OMS | The abbreviation for Order Management System, the technical name of the IOM |
| OMT | The abbreviation for Order Management Tool, the graphical management tool of the IOM |
| REST | Representational State Transfer |
| RMA | Return Merchandise Authorization |
| SMTP | Simple Mail Transfer Protocol |
| SOAP | Simple Object Access Protocol |
| Spring MVC | A Web Framework implementing the Model-View-Controller Pattern |

The following figure provides a very high-level overview of components of IOM, other components required by IOM, and their relations. When going from top to bottom, the following components can be found:

All incoming communication has to go through an HTTP-Proxy, which has the following purposes and requirements:

It can be seen that there are IOM application servers of two different types. Every IOM installation needs to have exactly one application server that is running *IOM scalable applications* and *IOM singleton applications.* For high availability and scalability much more IOM application servers may be part of the IOM cluster, but these must run *IOM scalable applications* only. More information can be found in the section [IOM Application Server](https://knowledge.intershop.com#IOMAppServer).

The IOM application servers are using two different kinds of persistent storage: a [shared file system](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1917323740/IOM+Technical+Overview+-+Components+3.0+-+4.7#IOMTechnicalOverview-Components(3.0-4.7)-HelmCharts--SharedFileSystem) and a [database](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1917323740/IOM+Technical+Overview+-+Components+3.0+-+4.7#IOMTechnicalOverview-Components(3.0-4.7)-HelmCharts--DatabaseServer). In fact, an IOM installation is defined by its data, persisted at these two places. Therefore, the persistent data have to be managed very carefully. They have to be backed up both, in order to be able to restore an IOM installation.

Finally, the IOM applications need to be able to access an SMTP server in order to send e-mails as part of implemented business processes.

Any HTTP proxy that meets the requirements listed in the [Architecture Overview](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1917323740/IOM+Technical+Overview+-+Components+3.0+-+4.7#IOMTechnicalOverview-Components(3.0-4.7)-ArchitectureOverview) can be used. The section [Ingress and Ingress Controller](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1917323740/IOM+Technical+Overview+-+Components+3.0+-+4.7#IOMTechnicalOverview-Components(3.0-4.7)-HelmCharts--Ingress) provides more information about actual implementation.

IOM applications are running inside Wildfly Application Server. This application server provides many base technologies used by IOM, e.g. JMS, JPA, EJB, etc.

For further information please see [https://docs.wildfly.org/](https://docs.wildfly.org/).

The following table gives an overview of the directory structure of IOM's shared file system.

| Sub-Directory | Description |
|---|---|
| archive/ | Folder used to archive old data, principally sensitive one, before deleting them in the database. |
| importarticle/ | Import/export of all kind of data (products, stocks, dispatches, returns) |
| communication-messages/ | Exchange of data, e.g., for orders.xml |
| media/ | Media data, e.g., product images |
| pdf/ | PDF documents created by IOM application server, e.g., invoices, credit notes, delivery notes |
| jobs/ | Reserved for projects, working files, and archived files for scheduled jobs for projects |

IOM requires a PostgreSQL Database Server. For further information see [https://www.postgresql.org](https://www.postgresql.org). The section [PostgreSQL Database Server](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1917323740/IOM+Technical+Overview+-+Components+3.0+-+4.7#IOMTechnicalOverview-Components(3.0-4.7)-HelmCharts--DatabaseServer) will give more information on how to use the PostgreSQL Database Server along with IOM.

An SMTP server is required to send different kinds of e-mails. The section [SMTP Server](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1917323740/IOM+Technical+Overview+-+Components+3.0+-+4.7#IOMTechnicalOverview-Components(3.0-4.7)-HelmCharts--SMTPServer) provides information on how to use the SMTP server along with IOM.

An IOM installation without customization cannot do anything. It is an empty shell only that needs to be filled.

Customization of IOM consists basically of the following things:

All these data have to be provided by implementation partners in a very special way, which is described in [Directory Structure of IOM Projects](https://github.com/intershop/iom-project-archetype/wiki/Directory-Structure-of-IOM-Projects). The easiest way to provide artifacts in this standard project structure is the usage of the [IOM Project Archetype](https://github.com/intershop/iom-project-archetype). Projects created this way also provide the ability to easily create the project-specific IOM docker image. This docker image can then be rolled out by IOM Helm Charts.

IOM writes all logging information to *stdout*. Each log-entry is written as a single line in JSON format. There are different sources of log-messages, all using different formats. To enable automated processing of such log-lines, all different log formats are providing unique meta-data, which give more information about the content and structure of the "real" content.

| Key | Description |
|---|---|
| logHost | The hostname of the pod that has written the log-line |
| logVersion | The log-type-specific version of log-format |
| logType | access|message|script access: access-log of Wildfly's undertow sub-system message: log-messages written by Wildfly Application Server, its sub-systems, and IOM script: messages written by shell scripts, e.g. to start Wildfly, initialize the database, etc. |
| appName | The name of container and customization if available, e.g. iom, iom+ci |
| appVersion | The version of IOM and of customization if available, e.g. 5.0.0+1.2.0 |
| configName | Name of project configuration that was selected, e.g. ci. |

Version 1.0 of access-log provides the following information:

| Key | Description |
|---|---|
| eventSource | Default entry, made by undertow subsystem. The source of the event in the request. There is redundancy with meta-data, but the undertow sub-system should not define the content of IOM's meta-data. |
| hostName | Default entry, made by undertow subsystem. The Wildfly host that processed the request. There is redundancy with meta-data, but the undertow sub-system should not define the content of IOM's meta-data. |
| bytesSent | The number of bytes sent in the body of the response. |
| dateTime | Date and time of request, using format-string: "yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ss.SSSXXX" (see
|

For better readability the logline in the following example was formatted. The IOM application-server will always write such a log-entry to a single line.

{ "eventSource": "web-access", "hostName": "default-host", "logHost": "ci-iom-0", "logVersion": "1.0", "appVersion": "5.0.0-SNAPSHOT@19137+1.2.0-SNAPSHOT", "appName": "iom+ci", "logType": "access", "configName": "ci", "bytesSent": 0, "dateTime": "2024-01-15T16:56:20.697Z", "localIp": "10.244.1.7", "localPort": 8080, "remoteHost": "10.244.0.148", "remoteUser": null, "requestHeaderReferer": "http://global-ingress-nginx-controller.iom-3-0-0-0-nginx.svc.cluster.local/omt/app/roleAssignment/userManagement", "requestHeaderUser-Agent": "Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64; rv:72.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/72.0", "requestHeaderHost": "global-ingress-nginx-controller.iom-3-0-0-0-nginx.svc.cluster.local", "requestHeaderCookie": "route=1600188975.597.41.791971; JSESSIONID=stHSCG0HI0eWUgLOThNGBm-pYEtfSohEh6js3jdZ.ci-iom-0; org.springframework.web.servlet.i18n.CookieLocaleResolver.LOCALE=en", "requestHeaderX-Forwarded-For": "10.244.0.148", "requestHeaderX-Real-IP": "10.244.0.148", "requestHeaderX-Forwarded-Host": "global-ingress-nginx-controller.iom-5-0-0-nginx.svc.cluster.local", "requestHeaderX-Forwarded-Proto": "http", "requestLine": "GET /omt/static/amCharts/js/amCharts.js?version=5.0.0-SNAPSHOT HTTP/1.1", "requestProtocol": "HTTP/1.1", "requestScheme": "http", "responseCode": 304, "responseHeaderContent-Type": null, "responseHeaderSet-Cookie": null, "responseTime": 0 }

Version 1.0 of message-log provides the following information:

| Key | Description |
|---|---|
| timestamp | The timestamp of the log message. |
| sequence | The sequence number of messages. |
| loggerClassName | The class name of the logger. |
| loggerName | The name of the logger. |
| level | The level of the logged message. |
| message | The simple unformatted message without stack trace. |
| threadName | The name of the callers' thread. |
| threadId | The ID of the callers' thread. |
| mdc | The mapped diagnostic context entry. |
| ndc | The nested diagnostic context entries. |
| hostName | The hostname of the IOM application server that has written the message. |
| processName | The name of the process. |
| processId | The ID of the process. |
| stackTrace | The exception stack trace (formatting characters are present, but quoted). |
| sourceClassName | The class of the code calling the log method. |
| sourceFileName | The source file of the code calling the log method. |
| sourceMethodName | The callers' method name. |
| sourceLineNumber | The line number of the caller. |
| sourceModuleName | The name of the module the log message came from. |
| sourceModuleVersion | The version of the module the log message came from. |

For better readability the logline in the following example was formatted. The IOM application-server will always write such a log-entry to a single line. Additionally, the stack trace was shortened and line breaks were added, which makes the example to show invalid JSON.

{ "timestamp": "2024-01-14T09:38:14.852Z", "sequence": 1933085, "loggerClassName": "org.jboss.as.ejb3.logging.EjbLogger_$logger", "loggerName": "org.jboss.as.ejb3.invocation", "level": "ERROR", "message": "WFLYEJB0034: EJB Invocation failed on component CreateOrderTransmissionPTBean for method public abstract bakery.logic.valueobject.ProcessContainer bakery.logic.service.controller.Executable.execute(bakery.logic.valueobject.ProcessContainer) throws java.lang.Exception", "threadName": "Thread-20 (ActiveMQ-client-global-threads)", "threadId": 1406, "mdc": {}, "ndc": "", "hostName": "ci-iom-0", "processName": "jboss-modules.jar", "processId": 222, "stackTrace": ": javax.ejb.EJBTransactionRolledbackException: (orderPU) exception found for object 'class bakery.persistence.dataobject.configuration.connections.CommunicationPartnerDO'\n\tat org.jboss.as.ejb3@17.0.0.Final//org.jboss.as.ejb3.tx.CMTTxInterceptor.invokeInCallerTx(CMTTxInterceptor.java:203)\n\tat org.jboss.as.ejb3@17.0.0.Final//org.jboss.as.ejb3.tx.CMTTxInterceptor.required(CMTTxInterceptor.java:364)\n\tat ... org.hibernate@5.3.10.Final//org.hibernate.query.internal.AbstractProducedQuery.doList(AbstractProducedQuery.java:1537)\n\tat org.hibernate@5.3.10.Final//org.hibernate.query.internal.AbstractProducedQuery.list(AbstractProducedQuery.java:1505)\n\tat org.hibernate@5.3.10.Final//org.hibernate.query.Query.getResultList(Query.java:132)\n\tat deployment.bakery.base-app-3.0.0.0-SNAPSHOT.ear.bakery.persistence-core-3.0.0.0-SNAPSHOT.jar//bakery.persistence.bean.configuration.connections.CommunicationPartnerPersistenceBean.getCommunicationPartnerList(CommunicationPartnerPersistenceBean.java:1087)\n\t ... 321 more\n", "sourceClassName": "org.jboss.as.ejb3.component.interceptors.LoggingInterceptor", "sourceFileName": "LoggingInterceptor.java", "sourceMethodName": "processInvocation", "sourceLineNumber": 77, "sourceModuleName": "org.jboss.as.ejb3", "sourceModuleVersion": "27.0.0.Final", "logHost": "ci-iom-0", "logVersion": "1.0", "appVersion": "5.0.0-SNAPSHOT@19129+1.2.0-SNAPSHOT", "appName": "iom+ci", "logType": "message", "configName": "ci" }

Version 1.0 of script-log provides the following information:

| Key | Description |
|---|---|
| timestamp | The timestamp of log-message, formatted by "date --iso-8601=seconds". |
| level | The level of the logged message. |
| processName | The name of the process that has written the message. |
| message | The simple unformatted message. |
| additionalInfo | Additional info, belonging to the message. |

For better readability the logline in the following example was formatted. The IOM scripts will always write such a log-entry to a single line.

{ "logHost": "ci-iom-0", "logVersion": "1.0", "appName": "iom-config+ci", "appVersion": "5.0.0-SNAPSHOT@19129+1.2.0-SNAPSHOT", "logType": "script", "timestamp": "2024-01-14T09:26:31+00:00", "level": "INFO", "processName": "apply_json_config.sh", "message": "success", "configName": "ci", "additionalInfo": "462 files were processed." }

Logging can be configured by a set of parameters, all having the prefix *log*. A detailed description of these parameters can be found in [Operate Intershop Order Management (GitHub)](https://github.com/intershop/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/iom).

IOM is a system that is mainly event-driven. Events trigger business processes that run asynchronously within the IOM application servers.

These business processes may send other events, triggering other business processes, and so on. Initial sources of events may be HTTP requests, coming from outside or jobs and schedules, triggered by timers.

Technically, events are realized by Java Message Service (JMS), and business processes are realized by message-driven beans.

The following list shows the deployment artifacts of IOM and the order in which they are loaded.

The application *Base* contains the essential (and crucial) functionality of the IOM and provides several functionalities used by the other applications.

Right after *base *application, applications provided by project customizations will be loaded.

The application *Process* contains message-driven beans and is the starting point of the business processes of the IOM. Typical business processes are the announcement of an order, routing of ordered articles to one or more suppliers, creation of invoice documents, or creation of payment notifications. Processes are triggered by the *Control* application, by other locally running business processes, and by incoming HTTP requests. Messages are sent and received locally only, not from other application servers.

The application *Impex* is responsible for the import and export of selected business objects. *Impex* can be used to exchange data with the connected actors as required. Possible business objects can be orders, customers, or products, for example.

The application *Impex* is one of the singleton applications and must be deployed on one IOM application server only.

The application *Control* is responsible for all processes that should be triggered periodically (scheduled). Scheduled processes are for example:

The application *Control* is a singleton application and must be deployed on one IOM application server only.

The application *Communication* is responsible for communication with external applications. Intended external applications are mostly shops and suppliers. Offered services include general order handling, return management, stock reservation, and more. Services are offered as SOAP and REST.

For further information see:

The application *Communication* is responsible for communication with external applications. Intended external applications are mostly shops and suppliers. Offered services include general order handling, return management, stock reservation, and more. Services are offered as SOAP and REST.

For further information see:

The application *GDPR* offers functionality including REST interfaces to support the *General Data Protection Regulation* of the IOM as well as other external systems that can be connected.

Also, see [Reference - IOM REST API](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1811755348/Reference+-+IOM+REST+API).

The application *RMA* offers functionality including REST interfaces to support the process of *Return Merchandise Authorization *of the IOM as well as other external systems that can be connected.

For further information see [Overview - IOM Return Merchandise Authorization](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1859666006/Overview+-+IOM+Return+Merchandise+Authorization) and [Overview - Intershop Order Management REST API](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1910440913/Overview+-+Intershop+Order+Management+REST+API).

The application *Transmission *offers functionality including REST interfaces to support the message transmission handling of the IOM.

For further information see [Overview - Intershop Order Management REST API](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1910440913/Overview+-+Intershop+Order+Management+REST+API).

The application *Schedule* provides the functionality of customizable, timebase-triggered jobs.

For further information see [Cookbook - IOM Job Framework](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1835840710/Cookbook+-+IOM+Job+Framework) and

The application *Order State* is a replacement of the SOAP OrderState service and offers a REST interface to get the status of one or more orders for given search criteria.

For further information see [Overview - Intershop Order Management REST API](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1910440913/Overview+-+Intershop+Order+Management+REST+API).

The application *Order *is a replacement of the SOAP Order service and offers a REST interface to create orders.

For further information see [Overview - Intershop Order Management REST API](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1910440913/Overview+-+Intershop+Order+Management+REST+API).

The application *OMT* is the standard graphical user interface of the Intershop Order Management System.

It can be used to manage the IOM in a more comfortable way using a common Internet browser. This tool provides functionality to manage customers, items, and orders. Due to the sensitive data, a login is needed. For this purpose, the OMT comes with user and role management.

For frontend functionality, the application uses several frameworks e.g., Bootstrap, jQuery, and others. The backend of the OMT is based on frameworks such as Spring, Spring MVC, and Hibernate.

The application *Monitoring *supports the monitoring of application servers.

Please see section [Health Check Requests](https://knowledge.intershop.com#HA--HealthCheckRequests) for more information.

The message-driven beans defined by the application *Control* are triggered by *Quartz* jobs, defined in *quartz-jobs-cluster.xml*. Since the application *Control* is rolled out on one IOM application server only, Quartz configuration becomes effective only on the IOM application server on which the application *Control* is deployed. But the Quartz sub-system and the corresponding job configuration are active on all IOM application servers. Please keep this in mind when customizing Quartz jobs.

See also [Reference - IOM Quartz Jobs 2.2](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1835846108/Reference+-+IOM+Quartz+Jobs+2.2).

There is a second concept that allows time-based orders to be triggered: *Schedules*.

This concept is mainly intended to be used by projects to define custom jobs. The respective application *Schedules* is rolled out on all IOM application servers. Hence, the jobs triggered by *Schedules* are running on all IOM application servers, too.

Also, see [Cookbook - IOM Job Framework](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1835840710/Cookbook+-+IOM+Job+Framework).

In contrast to traditional JMS-driven applications, Java Messages in IOM are sent and received only locally. There is no distribution of JMS events across different IOM application servers.

High availability (HA) can be defined as follows:

The system is designed for the highest requirements in terms of performance and reliability. Several platform capabilities allow easy scaling without downtimes.

The following sections describe a tested and working approach to enabling IOM to be highly available.

High availability can be provided by using multiple IOM application servers running in parallel. As shown in the section [Overall Architecture](https://knowledge.intershop.com#OverallArchitecture--Overview), there are two different types of IOM application servers. Each IOM cluster needs to have exactly one IOM application server that is running *IOM singleton applications*. However, these *IOM singleton applications* do not process any requests coming from outside. Instead, the *IOM singleton* applications process jobs only asynchronously.

From the standpoint of *High Availability*, all IOM application-servers are identical in their ability to process requests synchronously. Hence, if there is at least one running IOM application server, the application will be available.

For high availability, Helm value *replicaCount* has to be set to 2 or higher, see [Operate Intershop Order Management (GitHub)](https://github.com/intershop/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/iom).

During updates of IOM, the system cannot be available since database migration cannot be processed while application servers are still running. For more information see [Operate Intershop Order Management (GitHub)](https://github.com/intershop/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/iom).

Some directories of IOM servers are containing stateful runtime data that have to be shared by all IOM servers. These directories are placed as sub-directories within the shared file system of IOM.

Intershop recommends to use an HA-ready storage service for a shared file system. Otherwise, IOM cannot be highly available. If the shared file system is not available, all IOM servers are affected and will not be able to answer any requests.

For high availability, an highly available storage class needs to be used. See [Operate Intershop Order Management (GitHub)](https://github.com/intershop/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/iom).

According to section * Ingress and Ingress Controller* the

Session stickiness and session failover are realized by the *Ingress controller*.

If one of the IOM application servers is not available, e.g., for an upgrade or technical issues, the load balancer / *Ingress controller* has to be able to send all incoming requests dedicated for this IOM application server to one of the remaining IOM application servers. To do so, IOM provides a REST API for health check requests, which informs the Kubernetes cluster about the state of each IOM application server. The according configuration is already part of IOM Helm Charts. The health check requests support the load-balancer / *Ingress controller* in deciding which IOM application server to use and which not.

All IOM application servers provide a health check that can be requested using the URL */monitoring/services/health/status*. It responds with HTTP status code 200 if the application server is healthy. Otherwise, it responds with 5XX.

To ease error analysis, the content delivered by the health check URL contains further information about processed checks. This information is provided in a machine-readable format (JSON), which can also easily be understood by humans.

See [Concept - IOM Server Health Check](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1825736199/Concept+-+IOM+Server+Health+Check) for more information.

IOM application servers are all connecting to the PostgreSQL database.

For high availability of the whole system, also the database and connection to it have to support HA:

To provide HA, the application servers are able to reconnect to the database without a restart.

To work properly, invalid connections must be recognized and evicted from the pool. The *xa-datasource* configuration defines how this happens.

IOM uses the background validation checker rather than the validate-on-match method to reduce checking overhead. Moreover, the timeouts configuration parameters may influence the reconnect behavior (old connections might not get evicted as long as the timeouts are not reached). For more information about data source configuration, see [Datasource Parameters](https://docs.wildfly.org/19/wildscribe/subsystem/datasources/xa-data-source/index.html) in the Wildfly documentation.

The current configuration of IOM *xa-datasource* looks like this:

# The pool size depends on the number of application servers and the database server ressources. # It can be set at runtime by according environment variables /subsystem=datasources/xa-data-source=OmsDB: min-pool-size="${env.JBOSS_XA_POOLSIZE_MIN}" /subsystem=datasources/xa-data-source=OmsDB: max-pool-size="${env.JBOSS_XA_POOLSIZE_MAX}" /subsystem=datasources/xa-data-source=OmsDB: pool-prefill="true" # timeouts /subsystem=datasources/xa-data-source=OmsDB: set-tx-query-timeout="true" /subsystem=datasources/xa-data-source=OmsDB: query-timeout="3600" /subsystem=datasources/xa-data-source=OmsDB: blocking-timeout-wait-millis="3000" /subsystem=datasources/xa-data-source=OmsDB: idle-timeout-minutes="60" # connection validation /subsystem=datasources/xa-data-source=OmsDB: validate-on-match="false" /subsystem=datasources/xa-data-source=OmsDB: background-validation="true" /subsystem=datasources/xa-data-source=OmsDB: background-validation-millis="20000" /subsystem=datasources/xa-data-source=OmsDB: exception-sorter-class-name="org.jboss.jca.adapters.jdbc.extensions.postgres.PostgreSQLExceptionSorter" /subsystem=datasources/xa-data-source=OmsDB: valid-connection-checker-class-name="org.jboss.jca.adapters.jdbc.extensions.postgres.PostgreSQLValidConnectionChecker" # features, that are not used or not supported by IOM /subsystem=datasources/xa-data-source=OmsDB: interleaving="false" /subsystem=datasources/xa-data-source=OmsDB: pad-xid="false" /subsystem=datasources/xa-data-source=OmsDB: wrap-xa-resource="false" /subsystem=datasources/xa-data-source=OmsDB: same-rm-override="false" /subsystem=datasources/xa-data-source=OmsDB: share-prepared-statements="false" # required by metrics /subsystem=datasources/xa-data-source=OmsDB: statistics-enabled="true"

IOM supports access to *PostgreSQL HA clusters,* but always has to be connected to the master database.

A *PostgreSQL HA cluster* usually consists of one master server and one or more hot-standby servers. The master server is the only one that is allowed to change data. The failover process requires an additional witness server if the total number of servers (masters + standbys) is odd.

During the failover, the IOM application must be redirected to the new master. One solution is to add a proxy layer between the IOM application servers and the Postgres HA-cluster. This proxy-layer can be realized by PgBouncer. PgBouncer has to be reconfigured on the fly (without restart) whenever the current master changes. PgBouncer being a connection pool, can also be used to limit the number of connections to PostgreSQL. More than one instance of PgBouncer should be defined to avoid single points of failure.

The IOM database connection address is defined by the Helm parameter *oms.db.hostlist*, which supports a number of one or more database host addresses. For more information see [Operate Intershop Order Management (GitHub)](https://github.com/intershop/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/iom).

For more information about PostgreSQL, HA clusters see [http://repmgr.org](http://repmgr.org) and [https://pgbouncer.github.io.](https://pgbouncer.github.io)

All IOM application servers and the IOM database require synchronized clocks. Additionally, all IOM application servers and the IOM database have to use the same time zone. Currently, the time zone is fixed and will be set for IOM application servers and the database to *Etc/UTC*.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.