---
id: '0e419a81f17e5be0d71adaab9956982f'
title: 'Creating Product Attribute Groups'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3223N5'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:54.531372+00:00'
---
# Creating Product Attribute Groups

To create a new product attribute group:

-
Select the intended management context from the context selection box, then select Catalogs | Product Attribute Groups.
This displays a list of all product attribute groups currently defined for the current context.
-
Click New.
This displays the New Product Attribute Group dialog.
-
On the General tab, specify the details for the attribute group as required.
The mandatory information includes the name and ID. The description is optional.
-
Click Apply.
This creates the new product attribute group and enables the Attributes tab.
- Change to the Attributes tab and click New to assign attributes to this group.
-
Select a language, then provide attribute name and ID.
The attribute name is used for display purposes. The ID is matched by the system against standard and product attributes in order to retrieve the respective attribute value. If the attribute values are localized as well, the value for the respective locale is retrieved. For example, if the current locale of a user is German (de_DE), the system retrieves the attribute name for German as defined in the attribute group, and the attribute value for German as defined on the product to be displayed.
-
Click Apply to save your settings.
Otherwise, click Cancel to discard your changes.