---
id: '0f04f41c55353825d6c44a28f0e88f7a'
title: 'Feature List'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/4R7974'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:29:32.701285+00:00'
---
SPARQUE provides capabilities for personalized recommendations as well as configurable search and navigation behavior. It offers a comprehensive set of features that can be adapted to project‑specific requirements. While SPARQUE simplifies customization compared to traditional search engines, effective use of the platform requires appropriate domain knowledge. To ensure correct configuration and optimal results, SPARQUE is delivered together with a consulting package.

Make the shopping experience more agreeable by showing relevant recommendations at strategic points in your shop, such as:

Top sellers

Frequently bought together

Frequently viewed

New products

Related items

Similar items

Tailor search results to user behavior and context.

Cart‑sensitive ranking

Adjustable criteria weights

Purchase‑based personalization

Brand preference modeling

Create assortments per customer or customer segments.

Allow your customers to find the right products in your shop.

Search across product name, description, EAN/article number, category name, …

Fault-tolerant query handling (handling of spelling mistakes, fuzzy search, …)

Support for custom or domain‑specific search algorithms

Filters and dynamic facets

Control the vocabulary and semantics of search queries.

Synonyms and alternatives

Stop words

Support for redirects

Pinned items

Facet management

Enrich the search bar with suggestions to speed up product discovery.

Product suggestions

Category suggestions

Brand suggestions

Keyword suggestions

Allow your customers to browse the categories of the shop.

Menu bar

Category and family pages

Filters and dynamic facets

Customizable sorting rules on product listing pages

Adapt the experience to global and regional needs.

Multi‑language/multi-locale support

Tailor the recommendation, search and browsing to perfection.

Visual configuration editor to build custom algorithms

Connection of additional data sources (structured/unstructured)

Expose custom APIs to your shop, e-mail marketing tool, and other channels

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.