---
id: '0ff8234cf0421efe61bcd1d15196ea73'
title: 'Public Release Note'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/4788L3'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:29:29.815750+00:00'
---
The SolrCloud Search Service Adapter connects the Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) to a Solr server running in cloud mode. The search index configuration and maintenance in the ICM back office uses the Schema and ConfigSet REST APIs provided by Solr. As a result, the Solr server is separate and independent of the ICM application server cluster.

|
|
|
|---|---|---|
14.0+ | 7.0.0 | 8.11 |

Please see [Reference - ICM 14 Release Versions](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/49408278649/Reference+-+ICM+14+Release+Versions) for versions that are released and tested together.

The following table lists the cartridges contained in the SolrCloud Adapter:

|
|
|
|---|---|---|
ac_solr_cloud | The main implementation cartridge of the adapter defining and registering the search service. | |
ac_solr_cloud_bo | Additional functionality for the Commerce Management application. It provides additional configuration options for the index management, especially for suggest and spell-check. |

Follow the basic setup of ICM 14 customization described in [Concept - Customization - Deployment - ICM 11+](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48443982957/Concept+-+Customization+-+Deployment+-+ICM+11) to add the customization cartridges to ICM and to the cartridge list.

Add the `ft_solr_cloud`

* *feature to the cartridge list:

environment: CARTRIDGE_LIST: "ft_demo_search ft_headless ft_solr_cloud"

Add the Solr adapter to the customizations section of the helm chart:

... customizations: solrcloud: repository: intershophub/icm-as-customization-f_solrcloud:6.0.0 ....

The following environment variables show the setup of the most common options:

environment: SOLR_CLOUDSOLRSERVERURLS: "https://slr-test-slr-test-solrcloud.test.intershop.com/solr" SOLR_CLUSTERINDEXPREFIX: "cstmr-int-ed" SOLR_COLLECTIONREPLICATIONFACTOR: 2 SOLR_CLOUDBACKUPLOCATION: "/var/solr/data/backup-restore/local-collection-backups-1" SOLR_BASICAUTH: "solr:SolrIsAwesome!"

The environment variables in detail (from top to bottom):

With SolrCloud Adapter 7, it is required to configure a common Solr service URL using `SOLR_CLOUDSOLRSERVERURLS`

instead of a connection to a list of Zookeeper hosts. (This configuration is required.)

The cluster index prefix is required to distinguish the indexes from multiple ICM systems, e.g., if data replication is used (optional on development environment).

The recommendation for the replication factor is `2`

to have redundancy of indexes on two nodes. This ensures an index remains online even during a rolling restart of the Solr cluster. (Set to `1`

if there is only a single Solr, e.g., in development environments.)

A backup location is needed if data replication for search indexes is used.

In general, basic authentication is used for the connection from ICM to the Solr server. To configure basic authentication, add the user and password to the environment.

The basic authentication credentials can also be retrieved from a generic secret instead of being stored as plain text in the environment:

secrets: - env: SOLR_BASICAUTH name: icm-secrets key: solr_basicauth

The adapter comes with an initial Solr configset configuration that is prepared in *sites/root/1/solrcloud*. If the customization is added after database initialization, it is important to execute the initialization for the `ac_solr_cloud`

to make this configuration available.

Enable the managed services in Intershop Organization Management (Operations), see [Intershop Organization Management User Manual | Managing Services](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/index.php/Display/33S655).

Create search services in the organization and channels, see [Intershop Commerce Management User Manual | Managing Search Index Services](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/index.php/Display/32E815#task_pref_servSearch).

Create and manage search indexes, see [Intershop Commerce Management User Manual | Managing Search Indexes](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/index.php/Display/3281G6).

The SolrCloud Search Service Adapter 7 connects Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) to [Apache Solr](https://solr.apache.org/) to provide integrated search and navigation capabilities based on ICM's managed search service integration framework. The adapter provides the full backend feature set as described in [Feature List - Intershop Commerce Management B2X 7.10 | Search and Navigation](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1859650310/Feature+List+-+Intershop+Commerce+Management+B2X+7.10+EN#FeatureList-IntershopCommerceManagementB2X7.10(EN)-SearchandNavigation). However, some features (display of spell-checking results, search redirects, object suggest search) are no longer integrated out of the box into the ICM 12 standard storefront (PWA).

ID | Title |
|---|---|
Migration preparers for index configuration updates |

ID | Title |
|---|---|
Solr index build fails at UpdateSearchIndexConfiguration "Unauthorized request" | |
Solr Cloud object suggest rebuild search index execution sometimes does not get all expected records | |
Solr cache high memory consumption | |
Add text_splitting, text_splitting_tight to be used for SKU matching | |
Solr query contains facet.limit=-1 multiple times | |
Search index type specific tabs are not shown in the back office | |
Solr initial index build results in an inconsistent index |

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.