---
id: '1019a6cf3225822299d48f12c4f68c56'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/L28731'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:39:42.848916+00:00'
---
Intershop 7 (since IS 7.4 CI) is delivered with tools that can be used to build, assemble, upgrade, downgrade, deploy and undeploy software components.

The present document is intended as a quick start guide for consultants and developers for a quick project setup. The procedures described are based on Intershop 7.9 and 7.10 in combination with Intershop Gradle Tools 2.11.x.

Note

The activities described in this document are intended to give a rough overview of the setup steps. The document helps to get a first impression of the functionalities of the Intershop platform and the "look and feel" when developing applications.

Be aware that this quick guide neither describes the quickest solution for many developers, nor do the approaches mentioned here meet the requirements of a full-scale project setup.

To set up a development environment, please follow the [Cookbook - Setup CI Infrastructure](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822571078/Cookbook+-+Setup+CI+Infrastructure) guide instead, which focuses on creating a reusable infrastructure for multiple developers.

For more detailed information on how to create a complete CI Infrastructure, please refer to [Cookbook - Setup CI Infrastructure](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822571078/Cookbook+-+Setup+CI+Infrastructure).

For more detailed information on deploying Intershop 7 instances, please refer to [Cookbook - Deployment Tools ICM 7.9](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1826510540/Cookbook+-+Deployment+Tools+ICM+7.9).

| Term | Description |
|---|---|
| Nexus | Sonatype Nexus - an artifact repository server |
| Gradle | A build automation tool that builds upon the concepts of Apache Ant and Apache Maven |

`JAVA_HOME`

pointing to this JDK installationThe present document does not mention any version control system. Nevertheless you should be aware of the advantages of version control systems.

The [Cookbook - Setup CI Infrastructure ](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822571078/Cookbook+-+Setup+CI+Infrastructure)outlines how to use Apache Subversion to achieve this.

A CI server is perhaps not absolutely necessary to perform the tasks for your setup. However, build automation, automated deployment and self-testing builds are essential for a continuous integration strategy.

The more detailed [Cookbook - Setup CI Infrastructure](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822571078/Cookbook+-+Setup+CI+Infrastructure) illustrates how to use Jenkins to achieve this.

This Quick Guide does not describe any user management neither for the artifact repository server nor for the version control system nor for a CI server.

Note

Make sure to apply restricted user credentials, particularly when it is intended to make one of the above mentioned systems or the repository server itself available on the internet.

Please refer to the documentation of the according system to get more information on how to do that.

Once Nexus is installed properly, the repositories have to be configured.

See [Configure Artifact Repository Server](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822571078/Cookbook+-+Setup+CI+Infrastructure#Cookbook-SetupCIInfrastructure-ArtifactRepo).

Plan the distribution of the license file, e.g., create a folder:

| Linux | /opt/intershop/license |
|---|---|
| Windows | C:\intershop\license |

The deployment user should have read-access to this location, because the path of the license file must be specified later in the *environment.properties* file. The *license.xml* file itself is copied to *$IS_SHARE/system/license* during deployment.

Note

Download the latest version of the bootstrap package for the CI setup via your browser.

Note

It is also possible to create an own clone of the Git repository, see [https://github.com/IntershopCommunicationsAG/intershop-cisetup-template.git](https://github.com/IntershopCommunicationsAG/intershop-cisetup-template.git).

For more detailed information see

`Java_Home`

correctly.Execute:

./gradlew intershopCISetupAll

This initially creates all directories and files needed for your setup.

This section only provides shortened working steps. For more detailed information please refer to the recipe [Setup CI Build for Corporate Artifacts](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822571078/Cookbook+-+Setup+CI+Infrastructure#Cookbook-SetupCIInfrastructure-CorporateArtifacts) in the [Cookbook - Setup CI Infrastructure](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822571078/Cookbook+-+Setup+CI+Infrastructure).

Open a command line and execute:

gradlew publish -PrepoUserName=<deployment user> -PrepoUserPasswd=<deployment user password> -PreleaseURL=<URL for release publishing>

Go to * <ProjectHome>/projects/oracleDriver/3rd_oracle.*

Open a command line and execute:

gradlew publish -PrepoUserName=<deployment user> -PrepoUserPasswd=<deployment user password> -PreleaseURL=<URL for release publishing>

The standard assemblies of the Intershop Commerce Management Suite do not provide any storefront functionalities and/or content. Nevertheless Intershop provides a full grown Responsive Starter Store including the whole view layer with a responsive content model and demo content.

For more detailed information please refer to the recipe [Set Up Project Based on the Responsive Starter Store](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822571078/Cookbook+-+Setup+CI+Infrastructure#Cookbook-SetupCIInfrastructure-ResponsiveStarterStore) in the [Cookbook - Setup CI Infrastructure](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822571078/Cookbook+-+Setup+CI+Infrastructure).

These steps deploy the server from the current assembly build process.

Adapt the *environment.properties* according to your OS and define the database connection parameters, used ports and interfaces.

Note

When using Linux OS, make sure you *configure separate multicast ports* for each messaging channel.

Some older Linux distributions have an issue with multicast configurations on the same port and different IPs.

As Deployment User: Open a command line from * <ProjectHome>/projects/ <ProjektName> / * and execute:

gradle_environment.[bat|sh]

Build and deploy:

gradlew deployServer

As administrator/with root privileges open a command line and execute:

dbsetup.[bat|sh]

More information about the automated, script-based setup can be found here:[ Guide - Setup Oracle XE as Intershop Development Database.](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1762592631#Guide-SetupOracleXEasIntershopDevelopmentDatabase(validto7.10)-dbsetup)

For the installation of Oracle database drivers see also: [Support Article - Deployment Stops While Looking for Oracle 19 Drivers](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1902593512/Support+Article+-+Deployment+Stops+While+Looking+for+Oracle+19+Drivers)

As Deployment User: Open a command line from * <ProjectHome>/projects/ <ProjektName> / *and execute:

gradlew dbinit

As administrator/with root privileges: Open a command line from * <ProjectHome>/projects/ <ProjektName> / *

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ To finish the deployment please execute the following scripts as administrator / with root privileges: /folder/postInstall/installServices.sh ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Start the application server.

Note

Once source code is added via a component or component set to the assembly, the build processes have to be executed.

Refer to [Cookbook - Gradle Build Tools](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1783302828/Cookbook+-+Gradle+Build+Tools) for more detailed information on how to do this.


The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.