---
id: '11dd1da2bab059726de4983350ebf213'
title: 'Public Release Note'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3L0053'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:39:01.767430+00:00'
---
Welcome to Intershop Order Management 3.7!

*Intershop Order Management* (IOM) is an application of the *Intershop Commerce Suite* (ICS) that is designed to combine omni-channel commerce processes into one system. It automates and streamlines the life cycle of orders and payments. IOM processes orders from multiple touch points (web shop, mobile shop, call center and more), allocates them to multiple fulfillment solutions (fulfillment centers, drop-ship distributors, physical stores and more), and tracks all order and payment transactions.

IOM offers a centralized platform for managing distributed inventory, order, invoice and payment life cycles, and provides call center functionality, enabling real-time visibility into customers' purchasing behavior, stock levels, payments, and more. As part of ICS, it utilizes the suite's transaction, PIM and merchandising features.

IOM offers the possibility to tailor your business models as flexible and free as you need and depict them in your e-commerce environment. The order management system adjusts the order processing for various sales channels and suppliers and can be seamlessly integrated with existing components of your IT environment.

| Term | Description |
|---|---|
| API | Application Programming Interface |
| Docker | An operating system-level virtualization software. Also see Kubernetes and Helm. |
| Helm | A package manager for |
| ICM | Abbreviation for Intershop Commerce Management |
| IOM | Abbreviation for Intershop Order Management |
| Kubernetes | An open-source system for automating deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications. Also see |
| OMS | Abbreviation for Order Management System, the technical name of the IOM |
| OMT | Abbreviation for Order Management Tool , the graphical management tool of the IOM |
| REST | Representational State Transfer |

This feature is only accessible, if IOM Helm Charts of version 1.6.0 or newer are used. The new IOM Helm Charts are now providing the parameter *jboss.activemqClientPoolSizeMax*, which enables the configuration of size of ActiveMQs client thread pool.

The following metrics have been added to the /metrics endpoint:

| Metric name | Description |
|---|---|
| application_iom_shared_fs_disk_usage_ratio | Disk usage ratio - float value range [0..1] - 0 = 0%, 1 = 100% |
| application_iom_shared_fs_disk_total_bytes | Total shared fs size in bytes |
| application_iom_shared_fs_disk_used_bytes | Used shared fs size in bytes |

Also see [Guide - Operate Intershop Order Management 3.X | Application Metrics](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1911932456/Guide+-+Operate+Intershop+Order+Management+3.X#Guide-OperateIntershopOrderManagement3.X-application_metrics).

The following infrastructure components were updated:

IOM is now running in Wildfly 25.0.1.Final. Projects have to use the update dependencies to this version of Wildfly.

For installation instructions see:

Docker-images are available at:

Helm Charts are available at:

For a complete list of all interfaces please see [Overview - Intershop Order Management REST API](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1910440913/Overview+-+Intershop+Order+Management+REST+API) and [Overview - IOM Interfaces](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1811750501/Overview+-+IOM+Interfaces).

| ID | Title |
|---|---|
|

| ID | Title |
|---|---|
|

| ID | Title |
|---|---|
|

ID | Title |
|---|---|
|

|

| ID | Title |
|---|---|
|

Potential vulnerability in OMT needs to update spring framework to version to 5.3.18

| ID | Title |
|---|---|
|

| ID | Title |
|---|---|
|

ID | Title |
|---|---|
|

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.