---
id: '12005514b94d1af694f73ba3ae832bfa'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3145B6'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:30:21.548437+00:00'
---
This guide provides information on self-service processes for AKS-based systems. For an overview of production (PRD) deployment policies, including self-deployments, refer to the [deployment guidelines](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48893919474/Guide+-+Deployment+Guidelines+for+AKS-Based+Systems).

It is intended for developers who want to deploy to various applications, including PWA, ICM 11+ and IOM 3+, as well as environments such as production (PRD) and non-production (UAT and INT).

| PWA | |
ICM | ||
IOM | ||
| PRD | Production environment |
NonPRD | UAT and INT environments | |
UAT | User Acceptance Test environment | |
INT | Integration environment | |
| AKS | Azure Kubernetes Service |

The following page provides a general overview of the CI/CD process:[Concept - Intershop Commerce Platform DevOps - CI/CD Development Process](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48420488846/Concept+-+Intershop+Commerce+Platform+DevOps+-+CI+CD+Development+Process)

When deploying to production, please observe our [deployment guidelines](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48893919474/Guide+-+Deployment+Guidelines+for+AKS-Based+Systems).

With AKS-based systems, self-deployments of all applications work in a similar way.

The following sections describe the default configuration. Your branch and environment names, as well as other configurations, may vary. If you are unsure, refer to your project documentation.

You can trigger an automatic deployment by committing or merging your release to either the *master *branch (UAT) or the *develop *branch (INT) of the respective application.

This will trigger the creation of a new Docker image named after the build number and push it to the container registry. The Flux configuration (*version-edit.yml,* or *version-live.yml* in the environment’s application folder, e.g., *int/pwa/version-live.yaml*) will then be updated automatically and applied to the Kubernetes cluster.

Self-deployments to production are subject to certain restrictions. There are [defined deployment times](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48893919474/Guide+-+Deployment+Guidelines+for+AKS-Based+Systems#Eligible-deployment-times) (it is **not possible to deploy 24/7**), releases must be tested on NonPRD in advance, and risky self-deployments should be avoided. Please refer to our [deployment guidelines](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48893919474/Guide+-+Deployment+Guidelines+for+AKS-Based+Systems).

Deployments to PRD follow a similar pattern as deployments to NonPRD.

Commit your changes to the branch.

In Azure DevOPS, switch to the *intershop-pwa* (or *intershop-icm*, *intershop-iom*) repository, then *Repos* and *Tags*, e.g., *intershop-pwa * | *Repos* | *Tags.*

Click *New Tag.*

Select a tag name, the branch on which it is based, and provide a description. Unless configured differently, the name should have the form `release-*`

, e.g. `release 0.0.1`

.

Switch to *Pipelines*. You will find the build process under *Recently run pipelines*.

If the tag pattern corresponds to the pattern configured in Flux, the image build and subsequent steps will be triggered as described for UAT and INT.

Self-deployments to PRD (as documented here) have been disabled as part of the regular go-live process in the past. If this was the case for your system and you would like to re-enable them, you can request this via a service ticket.

To check the state of your deployments through dashboards in New Relic:

Log in to your New Relic account via [this link](https://login.newrelic.com/login?authentication_domain_id=2bddfdf1-467d-45a4-bc33-4d0a155e4c04) and select your customer account in the drop-down menu *All Accounts* in the top right corner.

Click *Dashboards* in the side bar.

Select the dashboard with the name of the application you wish to check (*PWA, ICM* or *IOM*).

Select the tab *Deployments*.

Here you can check the version that is currently deployed and the status of the last deployment.

If you experience any problems with your deployment, check the Helm Deployment Events log for error messages:

Click *Dashboards* in the side bar.

Select the dashboard *AKS Cluster Overview*.

Select the tab *Helm Deployment Events.*

Here you can view the Helm Deployment Events log.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.