---
id: '1326f075594f38401bf04b03765fe3ac'
title: 'Concept - CMS'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/250P21'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:54.037539+00:00'
---
Content sharing allows a business user to convey access to CMS objects within a repository (*target repository*) that is not the owning repository (*source repository*) of these objects. This works by enabling access from the target repository to the source repository of the CMS objects, further called *sharing*. This implies that *all* objects contained in the source repository are shared into the target repository. There is no individual sharing on object level.

Repositories where CMS objects can be shared from/to are Master-, Channel-, and Application-Repository. Via partner channel it is also possible to select Master-Repository of other partners (i.e., partner organization). It is possible to share from Master-Repository to Channel-Repository, from Channel-Repository to Application-Repository and also directly from Master-Repository to the Application-Repository.

Content sharing is of explicit nature, meaning that nodes and leafs do not implicitly have access to content objects that have been shared to their parents in the sharing path. E.g., (as depicted in the diagram below) although PrimeTech-MasterRepository is shared to PrimeTech- PrimeTechSpecials and PrimeTech-PrimeTechSpecials is shared to B2CWebShop-Repository, it does not automatically mean that content objects residing in the PrimeTech-MasterRepository are accessible to B2CWebShop. This can be enabled individually.

Since an application can access multiple parent repositories if enabled (see in the diagram below how two repositories are shared to B2C Webshop), an ordering is needed to decide which objects of which repository take priority at rendering time.

Example: Assume there is a system-managed homepage object existing in every repository (because the `PageEntryPointDefinition`

is visible in all contexts). Now, a business user can assign page variants to every homepage object. At the end the homepage is rendered in the context of B2CWebShop application. In which order should the page variant lookup combine page variants assigned to homepage object when they can be found following two (or more) separate paths?

As depicted in the diagram below, this ordering is achieved by calculating and using a *position* attribute for the sharing relation. It is determined automatically by the position of the source repository in the organizational hierarchy compared to the target repository. The rule is that the more specialized CMS objects take priority over the ones coming from other repositories depending on the *position* that has been calculated. Using the diagram below, CMS objects are prioritized in this order: B2CWebShop-Repository > PrimeTech-PrimeTechSpecials > PrimeTech-MasterRepository.

Technically, the content sharing relations between content (repository) domains are represented by proxy repository objects with a newly introduced type code of **27**, meaning that this is a content sharing proxy repository. As stated in the sections above, these repository objects have to define an ordering on its own. This is achieved by a *Position* custom attribute of type integer which is set at creation time of the sharing relation. This is achieved automatically by determining the position by the organizational hierarchy level of the source repository compared to the target repository.

Developers get access to detect and manage existing sharing relations by using the following interfaces/classes.

`ContentSharingProvider`

The `ContentSharingProvider`

is the main access point to detect and manage existing sharing relations (see the API for further details). The following ways exist to get an instance of `ContentSharingProvider:`


`GetContentSharingProvider`

injecting:

@Inject ContentSharingProvider contentSharingProvider;

asking the `NamingMgr`


ContentSharingProvider contentSharingProvider = NamingMgr.getProvider(ContentSharingProvider.class);

In comparison to the `ContentSharingHelper`

described below, it does not contain cached access to calculated sharing paths. If performance matters, use the `ContentSharingHelperProvider`

to retrieve a `ContentSharingHelper`

instance.

`ContentSharingHelper and ContentSharingHelperProvider`

The `ContentSharingHelper`

is a convenience class acting as a wrapper to `ContentSharingProvider`

that encapsulates a single sharing path. Such a path is a simple sorted set of `Domain`

objects. First containing the leaf `Domain`

, all `Domain`

objects in between and last the root `Domain`

.

Use the `ContentSharingHelperProvider`

to get an instance of `ContentSharingHelper`

. Internally, the helper provider maintains an [LRU](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cache_algorithms#Least_Recently_Used) cache to save runtime overhead. It is recommended to use the `ContentSharingHelper`

API instead of directly using above `ContentSharingProvider`

.

__How to get access to a ContentSharingHelper instance: __

@Inject ContentSharingHelperProvider provider; ContentSharingHelper helper = provider.get(); // Answers with the helper instance based on the current application or ContentSharingHelper helper = provider.get(leafDomain); // Answers with the helper instance based on the domain object provided as parameter value

Inside of SQL query files a `ContentSharingHelper`

is also available to gain access to the embedded `Domain`

object(s). It needs a `Domain`

object as input parameter. As of now, this query parameter handler implementation also uses the `ContentSharingHelperProvider`

to get a hold of the resulting `ContentSharingHelper`

object. Meaning, when using the query parameter handler access to the resulting `ContentSharingHelper`

is also cached.

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?> <parameters> <parameter name="Domain" type="com.intershop.beehive.core.capi.domain.Domain" optional="true"/> </parameters> <processor name="OracleSQL"> <processor-preprocessing output="SharingHelper" input="Domain" processing="ContentSharingHelper"/> </processor> <template type="countedobjects"> SELECT uuid, COUNT (*) over() AS rowcount FROM sometable WHERE <template-if condition="SharingHelper:SharingEnabled"> domainid in ( <template-loop alias="DomainUUID" iterator="SharingHelper:DomainUUIDsAsSet"><loop-statement><template-variable value="DomainUUID"/></loop-statement><loop-separator>,</loop-separator> </template-loop> ) <if-else/> domainid = <template-variable value="Domain:UUID"/> </template-if> </template> </query>

`ContentSharingPreparer`

The `ContentSharingPreparer`

is a dbinit preparer. It allows to establish content sharing relations during database initialization. It can be configured via a property file that is provided by the enclosing dbinit definition script.

Add the `ContentSharingPreparer`

to the *dbinit.properties* of the cartridge. Use the to-be-created property file as parameter.

ClassXXX = com.intershop.sellside.enterprise.dbinit.preparer.content.ContentSharingPreparer \ com.intershop.ucm.demo.dbinit.data.content.ContentSharing

The property file that is to be created to establish content sharing relations has the following format:

Content.<id>.Source.RepositoryDomainID = <source repository domain id> Content.<id>.Target.RepositoryDomainID = <target repository domain id>

Content.1.Source.RepositoryDomainID = FOO-MasterRepository Content.1.Target.RepositoryDomainID = FOO-BAR

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.