---
id: '132d34ce8dc5bc6e4004413bfad50b80'
title: 'Editing Attribute Mapping Rules for Product Data Feeds'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3H2254'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:47.808887+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/3H2254

# Editing Attribute Mapping Rules for Product Data Feeds

An Attribute Mapping Rule dialog is set up automatically whenever a configuration with the target Standard Transformed has been created. With the default settings, nothing is copied or preserved. This means that attribute mappings have to be edited first before product data feed can have an effect. To edit mapping rules for a configuration:
-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Catalogs | Product Data Feeds from the navigation bar.
A list of all configurations currently defined is displayed.

-
Click the Edit link of the configuration for which you want to edit mapping rules.
This opens the Attribute Mapping Rules dialog.

-
Edit the settings as required and click Apply.

## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.