---
id: '145ed413f7866cfba9fad3375139d97f'
title: 'Announcement'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/Q30022'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:39:40.399930+00:00'
---
In the past we reminded you that certain Solr-related artifacts will run out of support ([Announcement - End of Maintenance of Solr 4](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1930407436/Announcement+-+End+of+Maintenance+of+Solr+4) and [Announcement - Solr 4 - ICM and Tomcat 9 Compatibility](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1934725689/Announcement+-+Solr+4+-+ICM+and+Tomcat+9+Compatibility)).

This document is a) a reminder of this and b) informs about further upcoming end-of-support dates.

| Adapter | What Happens | When | More Info |
|---|---|---|---|
Solr 4 Adapter (for Solr 4) | There will be no new Solr 4 adapter releases anymore. | after December 2021 |
|

There will be no new SolrCloud Adapter 1 releases anymore.

ICM 7.10.26 is the last LTS release which is compatible with this adapter.

As soon as the next LTS release is available, the 1 year support for 7.10.26 ends, and with this, the support of the corresponding adapter. See further info about LTS releases here: [Concept - Continuous Releases (valid to 7.10)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1911917832/Concept+-+Continuous+Releases+valid+to+7.10).

If you are currently using any of the mentioned Solr adapters and they are working perfectly, there is no need to panic. We will not disable them in any way.

It is just that in case a problem occurs at some point in the future, updates and bug fixes will __only__ be provided in the current version of the adapter. Then you would need to update your systems in a hurry. So we recommend that you plan your updates beforehand and stay on current versions of ICM and Solr.

If you are still using any of the three mentioned adapters in your ICM project, we recommend planning a migration to SolrCloud 8 and SolrCloud Adapter 3.

This requires an update of the following three components in order to have a fully-compatible system:

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.