---
id: '14d25f5be91d2dcd22e8893570d7b6ef'
title: 'Managing Component Assignments'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32475Z'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:51.695809+00:00'
---
# Managing Component Assignments

Managing component assignments comprises adding components to page variants, components, includes, page templates or component templates (as allowed by the component type), and removing these assignments.

## Assigning Components to Target Objects

Note:

Only published components will actually be visible online, irrespective of their slot assignments.

To create a target assignment for a component:

-
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Components.
This opens the Components list view.
-
Click the name of the component you intend to edit.
This opens the Content tab of the detail view.
-
Change to the Assignments tab.
There is a section for each available target object type. The sections with existing assignments are expanded, the others are collapsed.Note:The available target objects depend on the allowed assignments as defined by the component type.
-
In the corresponding section, click Assign.
This opens the wizard to assign the current component to a target object of the selected type.
- Select the intended target object, and click Next to continue.
- Set the visibility period and priority as required.
-
Select a slot to which the component is to be assigned, and click Finish.
The component is assigned to the selected target object.

## Unassigning Components

-
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Components.
This opens the Components list view.
-
Click the name of the component you intend to edit.
This opens the Content tab of the detail view.
- Change to the Assignments tab.
-
Select the assignment you intend to remove.
Select the checkbox of the intended assignment in the corresponding section.
-
Click Unassign, and confirm the operation.
The current component is unassigned from the selected object.