---
id: '16766017955002721f74aa90580a9236'
title: 'Reference'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2H4752'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:10.176746+00:00'
---
The standard arithmetic operators are addition, subtraction, multiplication and division. Arithmetic operators take numerical values (either literals or variables) as their operands and return a single numerical value. Arithmetic operators work the same in ISML expressions as they do in other common programming languages.

Note

Division by zero is not defined and will result in a runtime exception.

The examples in the table below assume that `var`

has been assigned the value 2.

Operator | Description | Examples Returning Value 5 |
|---|---|---|
+ | Addition | var + 3 |
- | Subtraction | 7 - var |
* | Multiplication | 2,5 * var |
/ | Division | 10 / var |

These operators compare numerical operands and return a Boolean value based on whether or not the comparison is true. The table below shows valid operators.

Operands for arithmetic comparison operators must be classes of type number and their subclasses, e.g., money. The result is of type `Boolean`

.

The examples in the table below assume that `var`

has been assigned the value 2.

Operator | Description | Examples Returning True |
|---|---|---|
== | Equal: Returns true if the operands are equal. | var == 2 |
!= | Not Equal: Returns true if the operands are not equal. | var != 0 |
| >= | Greater Than or Equal To: Returns true if the left operand is greater than or equal to the right operand. | 3 >= var; 2 >= var |
| <= | Less Than or Equal To: Returns true if the left operand is less than or equal to the right operand. | var <= 5; var <= 2 |
| > | Greater Than: Returns true if the left operand is greater than the right operand. | 12 > var |
| < | Less Than: Returns true if the left operand is less than the right operand. | 1 < var |

Logical operators are used to build complex expressions that evaluate to `true`

or `false`

.

Type of operands: Boolean; result type: Boolean.

For the examples in the table below assume that variable `var_true`

has been assigned the value of `true`

and `var_false`

the value of `false`

.

Operator | Description | Examples Returning True |
|---|---|---|
AND | Returns | var_true AND var_true |
OR | Returns | var_true OR var_false |
NOT | Returns | NOT var_false |

Use the Concatenation Operator to concatenate two strings and return another string that is their union. If an operand is not a string, it is automatically converted into a string.

Type of operands: `String`

, result type: `String`

.

Operator | Description |
|---|---|
. | Period: Returns the concatenation of two string operands. |

These operators compare string operands and return a logical value based on the comparison. The value is equal only if both combined strings contain exactly the same characters. In the case that an operand is not of type string, it is automatically converted into a string.

Type of operands: `String`

, result type: `Boolean`

.

Operator | Description |
|---|---|
EQ | Returns |
NE | Returns |

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.