---
id: '1794d42de0acf7a96b89ce8f757865fd'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/30707Y'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:38:18.263412+00:00'
---
This guide contains information about the changes in sending e-mails for B2B user registration.

Previously, there was no way to suppress sending the registration e-mail when an inactive B2B user was created. For this purpose, a channel preference `SendRegistrationMailOnUserActivation`

has been added that can control this behaviour.

This preference is maintainable as channel preference in the commerce management. It is located on the *Registration and Reminder Preferences* page, see [Managing B2B User Registration E-Mail Preferences](https://docs.intershop.com/icm/7.10/olh/icm/en/operation_maintenance/topic_managing_registration_and_reminder_preferences.html#task_managing_b2b_user_registration_e_mail_preferences) in the ICM Online Help for details.

Now it is possible to specify when the registration e-mail should be sent:

After the execution of the migration script, a new preference `SendRegistrationMailOnUserActivation`

will be added to the `PreferenceDefinitions`

table. The default value of the preference corresponds to the previous behaviour for e-mail handling after a B2B user creation. This ensures that no further migration effort is required.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.