---
id: '180a5bfa6588c5ee7312955348fad1b5'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/236Z98'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:56.387925+00:00'
---
The document describes the concept for the site preview of products. The site preview started in the back office can be done for a selected date and with a configuration to show all products (online and/or enabled).

Preview configuration parameters will be accessed using a provider: `ProductConfigurationProvider`

. This provider defines extension points for several attribute configurations.

The implementation of the provider maps configuration values from preview user interface to "technical" attributes.

UI Configuration | Technical Attribute | Used in method |
|---|---|---|
Preview date |
|
|
Make all products visible |
|
|
Make all products visible |
|
|
Make all products available |
|
|

The extension implementation of the attribute configuration gets configuration values from the preview context.

`LastOrderDate`

and/or `EndOfLifeDate`

.The "Preview Date" set by the user in the "Design View" configuration is used for the product online date, products last order date and end of life date.

This setting influences if product(s) "Online" and "In Stock" flags are considered for the preview or not.

It also influences if product(s) last order date and end of life date is used to change its online state for preview.

In order to make the preview configuration take the preview settings into account, several Java classes and database queries were changed.

It checks first if an individual preview configuration `is...Active()`

and then does `get...Value()`

to get its active value. ("..." stands for the preview configuration parameter name).

To make the preview parameter available in the queries the class `ProductConfigurationQueryProcessor`

is used.

It provides an easy access to the configured preview parameters in the queries changed.

The `DefaultProductConfigurationProvider`

class provides default values for Java extensions methods. It checks if an extension implementation is available; if not, the default value is returned. The default values simulate the standard shop behavior.

The extension implementation is done in *sld_preview* and therefore only available if cartridge *sld_preview* is assigned to the application. This makes it easy to deactivate the preview functionality for a certain server (e.g. live system) by *not* assigning the *sld_preview* cartridge to a application.

For each parameter which influences the preview behavior there is a Java extension(xcs) and a Java extension implementation(sld_preview).

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.