---
id: '18c07a8e8f596bec15e14a50c484ef07'
title: 'Copying Products'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32227K'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:52.556301+00:00'
---
# Copying Products

The new product is set offline. If the source product has been derived from another product (via syndication), the reference to the original product is retained.

The following attributes are copied from the source product to the new product:

- General attributes (description, pricing etc.) and custom attributes, including availability setting.

- Attachments, product links, list prices and scaled prices.

- Content relations

- Assignments to categories and classifications

If the original product is a variation product, the copy is not assigned to the variation master. If the original product is a variation master, however, all variation products assigned to the original product are copied as well and the copies assigned to the copied variation master.

If the original product is a bundled product (i.e., part of a product bundle), or part of a retail set, the copied product does not become part of the bundle or retail set as well. However, if the original product is a product bundle or a retail set, the copied product is a product bundle or retail set, too. The products that are part of the original product bundle or retail set are now part of the respective copies as well.

To copy a product:

-
Locate the product which you want to copy.
For details, see
[Locating Products](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/task_locating_products.html). -
Click the name of the product.
The General tab of the Standard Product dialog is displayed.
-
Click Copy.
The new product is displayed in the product list view.Tip:You can also copy products via a batch process. For details, see
[Editing Products in Batch Mode](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/task_editing_products_in_batch_mode.html).