---
id: '193dfbf8e065e1d5e5471ead07cd73ae'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2993A6'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:29:49.291399+00:00'
---
With the cXML Punchout feature, Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) provides B2B customers with an external interface (cXML) that enables procurement systems to access product data directly. This is done using the cXML transfer format.

ICM provides several REST endpoints to support cXML Punchout. The Intershop Progressive Web App (PWA) uses these endpoints to provide a proper cXML Punchout end-to-end process.

The following diagram provides an overview of the general process. For a more detailed workflow plan, see the [cXML Punchout Catalog Browsing](https://knowledge.intershop.com#) section.

|
|
|---|---|
cXML | Commerce eXtensible Markup Language Protocol or Commerce XML used by ERP/Purchasing Systems when connecting to external Punchout catalogs |
ICM | Intershop Commerce Management |
SMC | System Management Console |
PWA | Intershop Progressive Web App |

The following documentation is related to the cXML Punchout feature:

[Concept - cXML Order Injection](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1930424034/Concept+-+cXML+Order+Injection) - Basic concepts, cXML Punchout functionality via REST calls

[Cookbook - cXML Order Injection](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1930420148/Cookbook+-+cXML+Order+Injection) - Recipes on frequently asked questions and possible modifications

To understand cXML Punchout, a list of features is given below.

For more detailed information on the REST calls, refer to [Reference - Punchout REST API 2.2.0 (ICM 7.10)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1944622471/Reference+-+Punchout+REST+API+2.2.0+ICM+7.10).

|
|
|---|---|
List cXML Punchout Users | Shows all cXML Punchout users ( |
cXML Punchout User Creation | Account admins can create cXML Punchout users. |
Edit cXML Punchout User | Account admins may update a cXML Punchout user's e-mail or password and set them to |
Delete cXML Punchout User | Account admins can delete a cXML Punchout user. |

An external (procurement) system can log on as a cXML Punchout user on to an Intershop Commerce Management system with REST. This feature is already supported by the Intershop PWA storefront. The user can then browse the storefront, add products to the cart, and transfer the cart back to the caller (initially identified by the `BrowserFormPostURL`

in the setup request).

|
|
|---|---|
cXML Catalog Browsing / Basket Transfer | The initial step to open a cXML session ( |
cXML Order Injection | Allows to create an order in the Intershop Commerce Management system directly from an external procurement system. This is described in separate documents. |

This chapter provides technical insights into the cXML Punchout implementation in ICM (excluding cXML Order Injection).

For each outbound connection from the external system to the Intershop system, a new basket is created. The lifetime of the basket is limited to the Punchout session. Therefore, each cXML Punchout connection, even from the same user, creates a new session with an empty basket. Typically, only a single cXML Punchout user is configured per customer, which is then used for multiple employees in the connected external system. A customer account administrator can configure one or more cXML Punchout users using the REST API.

The following figure shows the detailed overall process of a cXML punchout session.

cXML Punchout Catalog Browsing is a two-step process. First of all, the `PunchoutSetupRequest`

initiates a new Punchout session and validates the provided cXML user credentials. When the checks are successful, a Punchout session ID is returned.

After that, the second step - catalog browsing (shopping experience browsing) - starts automatically. The Intershop PWA allows you to log on to the storefront as a cXML Punchout user. You will then see a reduced storefront (e.g., fewer visual elements (no footer, etc.), missing functionality such as quotes, wish list, etc.).

A cXML Punchout user can perform most actions of a standard buyer, such as searching and adding products to a shopping cart that can be transferred back to a referenced procurement system (see `BrowserFormPostURL`

) at the end.

The next sections explain the process with sample responses.

The cXML Punchout URL of an ICM system should be publicly available, so that any cXML Punchout user with valid credentials can access it.

The pattern of the URL:

POST https://{host}:{port}/INTERSHOP/rest/WFS/inSPIRED-inTRONICS_Business-Site/rest/customers/OilCorp/punchouts/cxml1.2/setuprequest

Depending on the procurement system, the cXML data sent by a `PunchoutSetupRequest`

may look different. The following example contains only the minimal data set that is required to access the cXML Punchout PWA storefront for browsing:

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?> <!DOCTYPE cXML SYSTEM "http://xml.cxml.org/schemas/cXML/1.2.041/cXML.dtd"> <cXML payloadID="1539050765.0492@example.com" timestamp="2018-10-09T02:06:05+00:00"> <Header> <Sender> <Credential domain="NetworkId"> <Identity>cxmluser@test.intershop.de</Identity> <SharedSecret>!InterShop00!</SharedSecret> </Credential> </Sender> </Header> <Request> <PunchOutSetupRequest> <BrowserFormPost> <URL>https://{procurement-url}/punchout/cxml/%7B07F11422-C45F-B9E7-D312-E6F86929DBE4%7D</URL> </BrowserFormPost> </PunchOutSetupRequest> </Request> </cXML>

|
|
|---|---|
<Sender><Credential ...> <Identity> | Login name of a storefront user with the role of the cXML Punchout user, for example, |
<Sender><Credential ...> <SharedSecret> | Password of the cXML Punchout user |
<BrowserFormPost> <URL> | Transfer the cXML Punchout data back to this URL. Usually a reference to the calling, external (procurement) system, e.g., |

The response to a `PunchoutSetupRequest`

can be either a failure or a success. The HTTP response code is always 200, for both failure and success. Only the content of the response is different.

If the `PunchoutSetupRequest`

does not contain all required data, such as the `BrowserFormPost`

URL, the following response is returned:

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="yes"?> <!DOCTYPE cXML SYSTEM "http://xml.cxml.org/schemas/cXML/1.2.049/cXML.dtd"> <cXML xmlns:ns2="http://www.w3.org/2000/09/xmldsig#" xmlns:ns3="http://uri.etsi.org/01903/v1.3.2#"> <Response> <Status code="400" text="Bad Request (Missing browser form post URL)"/> </Response> </cXML>

If the cXML Punchout user does not exist or the credentials are not correct, the following response is returned:

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="yes"?> <!DOCTYPE cXML SYSTEM "http://xml.cxml.org/schemas/cXML/1.2.049/cXML.dtd"> <cXML xmlns:ns2="http://www.w3.org/2000/09/xmldsig#" xmlns:ns3="http://uri.etsi.org/01903/v1.3.2#"> <Response> <Status code="401" text="Unauthorized"/> </Response> </cXML>

A response body for a successfully created session contains only a URL pointing to the PWA storefront (`StartPage`

) with a Punchout session ID and an `access-token`

as parameters.

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="yes"?> <!DOCTYPE cXML SYSTEM "http://xml.cxml.org/schemas/cXML/1.2.049/cXML.dtd"> <cXML xmlns:ns2="http://www.w3.org/2000/09/xmldsig#" xmlns:ns3="http://uri.etsi.org/01903/v1.3.2#"> <Response> <Status code="200" text="OK"/> <PunchOutSetupResponse> <StartPage> <URL>http://localhost:4200/punchout?sid=71wKAB2GNRwAAAF8iuw5eDsy&access-token=encryption0%40PLAIN%3ALQBahs154Vc%3D%7CTG53S0FCMkd2Y3dBQUFGOC52OGpLQmViQDE2MzMwODA3NjU1NzdASUQ%3D</URL> </StartPage> </PunchOutSetupResponse> </Response> </cXML>

The returned PWA URL is the *External Base URL* maintained in the *Progressive Web App* application properties (tab *General*) in ICM.

The Punchout session ID (`sid`

) is required to retrieve session details and to transfer the Punchout basket back to the procurement system.

The `access-token`

is required to authorize all subsequent REST requests (header "authentication-token").

The created cXML Punchout session is persisted until the cXML basket transfer has been executed. The successful cXML basket transfer will automatically dismiss the cXML Punchout session.

If the cXML basket transfer is not executed, the cXML Punchout session will be available until the created basket becomes "invalid" and the [Job - Cleanup Outdated cXML Punchout Sessions](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1944629731/Job+-+Cleanup+Outdated+cXML+Punchout+Sessions) has been executed.

The Punchout basket is a standard basket that is automatically moved to the history and later set to invalid after a certain time (configurable).

During the lifetime of a cXML Punchout session, it is possible to retrieve all necessary information contained in the `PunchoutSetupRequest`

using the session ID (`sid`

) and the `access-token`

.

The pattern of the URL:

GET https://{host}:{port}/INTERSHOP/rest/WFS/inSPIRED-inTRONICS_Business-Site/rest/customers/OilCorp/punchouts/cxml1.2/sessions/<sid>

Headers: "authentication-token" = <access-token>

If the session ID is valid, the response contains relevant information for the Punchout session. Passwords (SharedSecrets) are not stored and not returned. Fields with `null`

values are not part of the `PunchoutSetupRequest`

.

Session details:

{ "operation": null, "basketId": "xv8KAB2GjBgAAAF8h4o5eDtD", "returnURL": "https://{procurement-url}/punchout/cxml/%7B07F11422-C45F-B9E7-D312-E6F86929DBE4%7D", "creationDate": 1633081854600, "buyerCookie": null, "credentialFrom": null, "credentialTo": null, "credentialSender": { "domain": "NetworkId", "identity": "cxmluser@test.intershop.de" } }

When the cXML Punchout catalog browsing is finished, the cXML Punchout basket is transferred back to the external procurement system. This can be done using the following REST endpoint:

The pattern of the URL:

POST https://{host}:{port}/INTERSHOP/rest/WFS/inSPIRED-inTRONICS_Business-Site/rest/customers/OilCorp/punchouts/cxml1.2/transfer?sid=<sid>

An empty body should be sent.

The cXML data is transferred using the cXML format. See the [cXML Reference Guide Version 1.2.050 [PDF - 4.009 KB]](http://xml.cxml.org/current/cXMLReferenceGuide.pdf) for details.

**Example Response**

<?xml version="1.0"?><!DOCTYPE cXML SYSTEM "http://xml.cxml.org/schemas/cXML/1.2.014/cXML.dtd"> <cXML xml:lang="en-US" payloadID="933695160894" timestamp="2021-06-10T08:47:00-07:00"> <Header> <From> <Credential domain="DUNS"> <Identity>83528721</Identity> </Credential> </From> <To> <Credential domain="DUNS"> <Identity>65652314</Identity> </Credential> </To> <Sender> <Credential domain="inSPIRED"> <Identity>inTRONICS_Business</Identity> </Credential> <UserAgent>any cXML Application</UserAgent> </Sender> </Header> <Message> <PunchOutOrderMessage> <BuyerCookie>1CX3L4843PPZO</BuyerCookie> <PunchOutOrderMessageHeader operationAllowed="edit"> <Total> <Money currency="USD">763.20</Money> </Total> </PunchOutOrderMessageHeader> <ItemIn quantity="1"> <ItemID> <SupplierPartID>5555</SupplierPartID> <SupplierPartAuxiliaryID>E000028901</SupplierPartAuxiliaryID> </ItemID> <ItemDetail> <UnitPrice> <Money currency="USD">763.20</Money> </UnitPrice> <Description xml:lang="en"><ShortName>Excelsior Desk Chair</ShortName>Leather Reclining Desk Chair with Padded Arms</Description> <UnitOfMeasure>EA</UnitOfMeasure> <Classification domain="UNSPSC">5136030000</Classification> <LeadTime>12</LeadTime> </ItemDetail> </ItemIn> </PunchOutOrderMessage> </Message> </cXML>

The feature described in this section is available from ICM version 7.10.35.1 and was also extended and reworked in later versions 12.0.0 and 12.2.0.

This section describes how certain values can be configured.

It is possible to define a global default value for each available configuration. This value will be used if no user-specific preference is set, except for the “unitmapping” field, see [Unit Mapping](https://knowledge.intershop.com#unit_mapping_config).

The default values are retrieved from properties files via the configuration framework, for example, *cxmlpunchoutconfiguration.properties*.

The property values should be defined as follows:

`intershop.cxml.XXX=<default value>`


In this line, `XXX`

is the placeholder for the configuration name, for example: `unitmapping`

, `punchout.locale`

, `punchout.useShortNameTagInDescriptionTag`

, see section [Available Configurations](https://knowledge.intershop.com#available_config).

For some of the configurations, ICM already defines global default values. These global default values can also be overridden in user-defined projects by providing the same property with a new value that is defined in a customer-specific properties file.

For example,

ISH-Standard (`cxmlpunchoutconfiguration.properties`

):

intershop.cxml.punchout.classificationCatalogID=UNSPSC

Custom project (`cxmlpunchoutconfigurationcustom.properties`

):

intershop.cxml.punchout.classificationCatalogID=ecl@ss

This changes the global default value of this configuration "punchout.classificationCatalogID" for this customer project from "UNSPSC" to "ecl@ss", which can also be overridden by a user-specific configuration.

When neither global default values nor user-specific settings are defined, additional fallbacks are sometimes used. For example, for `punchout.locale`

there are fallbacks to the application locale or the system-wide lead locale.

As the name suggests, user-specific preferences can be set differently for different cXML users. This is useful and necessary when connecting different external procurement systems that require different configurations. For this purpose, a new database table `UserPreference`

was introduced to store user-specific cXML configurations.

cXML user-specific preferences can either be imported via customer/user import or set/changed using the cXML Punchout REST API, see [Overview - Intershop Commerce Management REST API](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1757905302/Overview+-+Intershop+Commerce+Management+REST+API).

Example of an import file (see tag `user-preferences`

):

... <user business-partner-no="cxmluser1"> <business-partner-no>cxmluser1</business-partner-no> <profile> ... <user-preferences> <user-preference name="punchout.locale" group="cxml">de_DE</user-preference> <user-preference name="unitmapping" group="cxml">PC;pcs EA;each</user-preference> <user-preference name="punchout.classificationCatalogID" group="cxml">eCl@ss</user-preference> <user-preference name="punchout.mapper.supplierPartID" group="cxml">SKU</user-preference> <user-preference name="punchout.useShortNameTagInDescriptionTag" group="cxml">false</user-preference> </user-preferences> </profile> ... </user> ....

A new rest endpoint `configurations`

has been introduced for cXML users in ICM 12.0.0.

URL: `PATCH /customers/{CustomerKey}/punchouts/cxml1.2/users/{CXMLPunchoutUserKey}/configurations`


For Intershop REST API documentation, refer to [Overview - Intershop Commerce Management REST API](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1757905302/Overview+-+Intershop+Commerce+Management+REST+API).

There are two major versions of the (cXML) Punchout REST API under `customers/{CustomerKey}/punchouts/cxml1.2`

(2.x.x, 3.x.x)

Version 2.x.x contains OCI and cXML functionality combined into one REST API. For cXML, the first draft a getting/setting cXML user-specific configurations is contained. This should no longer be used as it has been reworked and extracted into a new separate “cXML Punchout REST API” without OCI. The accept header for this 2.x.x version is `application/vnd.intershop.punchout.v2+json`

.

Version 3.x.x (since 12.2.0) contains cXML functionality only. The configurations endpoint has been reworked so that the data returned is structurally different from version 2.x.x and contains additional information. Intershop recommends to use this API version for all cXML-related actions. The accept header for this 3.x.x version is `application/vnd.intershop.punchout.cxml.v3+json`

.

As mentioned before, the `UserPreference`

database table contains the user-specific cXML configuration data. All user preferences that are to be used must be declared in a *properties* file as the `intershop.cxml.punchout.user.preference.fields`

property. The list of declared fields can also be extended by projects using the `intershop.cxml.punchout.user.preference.fields.custom`

property. It is also possible to replace the default list, see [Cookbook - cXML Punchout | Recipe: Add Custom Configuration Value for User-specific Punchout Configurations (from 12.2.0)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1938777602/Cookbook+-+cXML+Punchout#add-custom-config-value) for detailed information.

Any preferences that are not declared in one of the two properties are ignored when the user-specific cXML configuration is read. In this case, only default values defined by global properties are returned. Writing these entries via the REST API will result in an error. Also, the customer/user import will only import declared preferences and skip all others with a warning message.

**cxmlpunchoutconfiguration.properties**

// all allowed user preference fields must be mentioned here intershop.cxml.punchout.user.preference.fields=unitmapping,punchout.locale,punchout.classificationCatalogID,punchout.mapper.supplierPartID,punchout.useShortNameTagInDescriptionTag

From ICM 12.2.0, it is possible to provide optional additional information for the user preferences. This includes:

`inputtype`

:

Input field type to tell the UI which input field to use

Values: “text-short” (default, standard text field), “text-long” (textarea)

If no value is specified, the default value “text-short” is used.

`validation`

:

RegEx pattern to validate the input values (via REST API and user import)

If no pattern is provided, no validation will be performed.

The values can be defined for each field in `cxmlpunchoutconfiguration.properties`

, where `XXX`

is the placeholder for the field name:

`intershop.cxml.punchout.user.preference.XXX.inputtype=...`


`intershop.cxml.punchout.user.preference.XXX.validation=...`


`validation.message`

:

Localized (error/warning) message to be displayed when RegEx validation fails

If a validation pattern is provided, there must also be a message.

`description`

:

Localized additional description of the field that is displayed on the input screen of the cXML user-specific configuration page

These are localized strings which are defined in locale-specific property files `cxmlpunchoutconfiguration_YY.properties`

, where `YY`

is the placeholder for the supported languages, e.g. `de`

, `en`

, `fr`

, and `XXX`

is the placeholder for the field name:`intershop.cxml.punchout.user.preference.XXX.validation.message=...`

`intershop.cxml.punchout.user.preference.XXX.description=...`


Validation is discussed in more detail in the next section.

As mentioned before, a validation expression (RegEx) can be added for any defined cXML user preference. When a preference value is set via customer/user import or via REST API, the provided value is evaluated against the configured regular expression (`intershop.cxml.punchout.user.preference.XXX.validation`

). If the value does not match the regular expression, a localized error/warning message (`intershop.cxml.punchout.user.preference.XXX.validation.message`

) is created.

When setting values via the REST API, if one or more invalid values are sent, the entire request is rejected as invalid.

During the customer/user import, invalid user settings are displayed only as warnings and are ignored. The import process will still continue and will not be canceled.

**cxmlpunchoutconfiguration.properties**

If characters or character sets in the regular expressions start with a backslash (“\”), for example “\t” or “\s”, they must be escaped with a second backslash, for example, "\s" → "\\s".

Reserved characters such as “&” must also be escaped with a backslash, "&" → "\&".

intershop.cxml.punchout.user.preference.unitmapping.validation=^[a-zA-Z0-9]+;[a-zA-Z0-9]+((\\t|\&)[a-zA-Z0-9]+;[a-zA-Z0-9]+)*$ intershop.cxml.punchout.user.preference.punchout.locale.validation=^([a-z]{2})_([A-Z]{2})$ intershop.cxml.punchout.user.preference.punchout.classificationCatalogID.validation=^(?!\\s*$).+ intershop.cxml.punchout.user.preference.punchout.mapper.supplierPartID.validation=^(?!\\s*$).+ intershop.cxml.punchout.user.preference.punchout.useShortNameTagInDescriptionTag.validation=^(true|false)$

**cxmlpunchoutconfiguration_en.properties**

intershop.cxml.punchout.user.preference.unitmapping.validation.message=The value of the ''unitmapping'' field must be a \u0026-separated list of ''value1;value2'' pairs, for example, ''value1;value2\u0026value3;value4\u0026value5;value6''. intershop.cxml.punchout.user.preference.punchout.locale.validation.message=The value of the ''punchout.locale'' field must be two lowercase letters for language and two uppercase letters for region, separated by ''_''. For example, ''en_US''. intershop.cxml.punchout.user.preference.punchout.classificationCatalogID.validation.message=The value of the ''punchout.classificationCatalogID'' field must be a non-empty string. intershop.cxml.punchout.user.preference.punchout.mapper.supplierPartID.validation.message=The value of the ''punchout.mapper.supplierPartID'' field must be a non-empty string. intershop.cxml.punchout.user.preference.punchout.useShortNameTagInDescriptionTag.validation.message=The value of the ''punchout.useShortNameTagInDescriptionTag'' field must be either ''true'' or ''false''.

**cxmlpunchoutconfiguration_de.properties**

intershop.cxml.punchout.user.preference.unitmapping.validation.message=Der Wert des Feldes ''unitmapping'' muss eine durch \u0026-Zeichen getrennte Liste von ''value1;value2''-Paaren sein, zum Beispiel ''value1;value2\u0026value3;value4\u0026value5;value6''. ...

**cxmlpunchoutconfiguration_fr.properties**

intershop.cxml.punchout.user.preference.unitmapping.validation.message=La valeur du champ \u00AB unitmapping \u00BB doit \u00EAtre une liste de paires \u00AB value1;value2 \u00BB s\u00E9par\u00E9es par des \u0026, par exemple \u00AB value1;value2\u0026value3;value4\u0026value5;value6 \u00BB. ...

Name/ID |
|
Global Default Value | none |
Lookup Hierarchy |
|

The locale configuration is used for localized product texts when transferring the Punchout basket.

Name/ID |
|
Global Default Value | intershop.cxml.unitmapping.EA=pcs intershop.cxml.unitmapping.BX=Box intershop.cxml.unitmapping.DZ=Dozen intershop.cxml.unitmapping.CS=Case |
Lookup Hierarchy |
Unlike the other configurations, the user-specific preference values are "merged" with the global default. |

Unit mapping converts procurement system units (usually UOM codes), such as *BX* (box) or *PC* (piece), into units that are maintained as product packing units in the ICM, and vice versa. This is necessary because procurement systems typically only support UOM codes and the product unit in the ICM does not have to follow any standard. Different procurement systems may support a different set of UOM codes. Since the settings are user-specific, multiple cXML users with individual mappings can support multiple procurement systems.

The unit mapping is used for both, Punchout and order injection.

It is possible to create a property with the `intershop.cxml.unitmapping`

key prefix to define "global" mapping configurations.

Example: `intershop.cxml.unitmapping.EA=pcs`

, or `intershop.cxml.unitmapping.BX=Box`

, etc.

It is also possible to create a preference in the `UserPreferences`

table with the `unitmapping`

name and the `cxml`

group to define a user-specific mapping configuration.

Here the configuration data is expected to be stored in one line.

The key and the value are separated by a '`;`

', the different groups (key-value-pairs) are separated by a '\t' tabulator character.

Example stringValue: `EACH;pcs BOX;box DOZ;DOZEN`


Starting with 12.2.0, the new default list separator is “&” instead of “\t”. For backward compatibility, the “\t” can still be used when setting the unitmapping via customer/user import and also via the REST interface. The tab is also stored in the database table (and not replaced) when it is used. However, for all read accesses via the CXMLPunchoutConfigurationProvider, only the new separator "&" is returned (even if it was set with “\t”).

**Key and Value - Unit Explained**

The left part of the configuration aka '*key'* represents the units in the procurement system.

The right part aka *'value'* is the unit available in the ICM.

Example mapping:

For the [cXML Punchout process](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1934744827/Concept+-+cXML+Punchout), the mapping is performed from the *value* to the *key* configuration (ICM to calling procurement system).

For the [Order Injection process](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1930424034/Concept+-+cXML+Order+Injection), the mapping is performed from the *key* to the *value* configuration (order injecting procurement system to ICM).

If the value for the unit is not available, default values for the key and the value can be defined, see [Cookbook - cXML | Recipe: Add Default Custom Unit Mappings](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1938777602/Cookbook+-+cXML+Punchout#add-default-custom-unit-mappings).

This means, for example, that if no unit is defined for a product, the default configuration will be used instead, if available.

__Examples:__

|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|
EA | stück | pcs | stück |
BOX | box | box | |
DOZ | dozen | dozen |

Name/ID |
|
Global Default Value |
|
Lookup Hierarchy |
|

Classification specifies the commodity grouping of the line item to the buyer. The cXML standards requires a product classification, preferably UNSPSC.

To customize the `PunchoutOrderMessage`

, it is possible to specify which classification (catalog) should be used to provide the product classification.

Therefore, the “type” of the classification catalog has to be specified here, also see section [Product Classifications](https://knowledge.intershop.com#prod_classif).

See also [Cookbook - cXML Punchout: Recipe: How to Adjust the Classification Catalog Used (from 12.0.0)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1938777602/Cookbook+-+cXML+Punchout#Recipe:-How-to-Adjust-the-Classification-Catalog-Used-(from-12.0.0)).

Name/ID |
|
Global Default Value |
|
Lookup Hierarchy |
|

To customize the `PunchoutOrderMessage`

, it is possible to adjust the mapping of the item's supplier part ID. Out of the box, you can choose between `ProductRef`

and `SKU`

. It is also possible to add your own implementations to get different values.

See [Cookbook - cXML Punchout: Recipe How to Change the mapping for SupplierPartID in the PunchOutOrderMessage (from12.0.0)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1938777602/Cookbook+-+cXML+Punchout#Recipe%3A-How-to-Change-the-Mapping-for-SupplierPartID-in-the-PunchOutOrderMessage-(from-12.0.0)) for a detailed explanation on how to do this.

Name/ID |
|
Global Default Value |
|
Lookup Hierarchy |
|

As defined by the cXML standard, see [https://xml.cxml.org/current/cXMLUsersGuide.pdf](https://xml.cxml.org/current/cXMLUsersGuide.pdf) (pp 96), the `Description`

tag (within the `ItemDetail`

tag) contains a nested tag called `ShortName`

to hold the name of the product (line 2). See the excerpt from the linked user guide for what it looks like when `useShortNameTagInDescriptionTag=true`

:

<Description xml:lang="en-US"> <ShortName>Big Computer</ShortName> This wonder contains three really big disks, four CD-Rom drives, two Zip drives, an ethernet card or two, much more memory than you could ever use, four CPUs on two motherboards. We’ll throw in two monitors, a keyboard and the cheapest mouse we can find lying around. </Description>

Some procurement systems, such as Microsoft Dynamics 365 Finance and Operations, do not accept this nested tag and suggest putting the product name in the `Description`

tag instead.

To support both cases, the cXML standard with the `ShortName`

tag and the simple adaption to put the product information directly in the `Description`

tag, it is possible to configure whether the `ShortName`

tag should be used or not.

See also [Cookbook - cXML Punchout: Recipe How to solve issues with the nested ShortName tag](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1938777602/Cookbook+-+cXML+Punchout#Recipe%3A-How-to-Solve-Issues-with-the-Nested-ShortName-Tag-(from-12.0.0)).

When the flag is set to false (`useShortNameTagInDescriptionTag=false`

), the text looks like this:

<Description xml:lang="en-US">Big Computer This wonder contains three really big disks, four CD-Rom drives, two Zip drives, an ethernet card or two, much more memory than you could ever use, four CPUs on two motherboards. We’ll throw in two monitors, a keyboard and the cheapest mouse we can find lying around. </Description>

The `ShortName`

tag is missing and the content of the `Description`

starts with the product name followed by the product description separated by a line break (\n).

The `CXMLPunchoutConfigurationProvider`

should be used to retrieve all the configurations.

The provider currently has the following methods:

// Before ICM 12.2.0 Map<String, String> getUnitMappings(UserBO userBO); LocaleInformation getPunchoutLocale(UserBO userBO); String getClassificationCatalogID(UserBO userBO); String getSupplierPartIDMapperID(UserBO userBO); // Since ICM 12.2.0 Map<String, String> getUnitMappings(UserBO userBO); // get Unit mappings as Map LocaleInformation getPunchoutLocale(UserBO userBO); // get Punchout locale information object CXMLPunchoutFieldConfiguration getUserSpecificConfiguration(String fieldName); // get information for defined user-specific configuration given by the fieldName like inputtype, description etc. List<CXMLPunchoutFieldConfiguration> getUserSpecificConfigurations(); // get the list of defined user-specific configurations String getStringValue(String fieldName, UserBO userBO) // get user-specific (string) value for given field (if no preference is set the global default value is returned) String getStringValue(String fieldName, UserBO userBO, CXMLPunchoutFieldConfigurationAccessType accessType) // get user-specific (string) value for given field based on accessType (User preference, default value, both combined) String getClassificationCatalogID(UserBO userBO); // deprecated, will be removed in 13.0.0 String getSupplierPartIDMapperID(UserBO userBO); // deprecated, will be removed in 13.0.0

As already mentioned before, configuration values are retrieved from a hierarchy (user-specific, global default, fallback). The details are described in the previous section [Available Configurations](https://knowledge.intershop.com#available_config).

The standard way to get the user-specific configuration value for a particular field as plain string is to call the following method:`String getStringValue(String fieldName, UserBO userBO)`


This method automatically traverses the hierarchy and returns the configuration value for the requested field if one is set (at any level: 1. user-specific preference; 2. global default; 3. fallback).

It is also possible to get only specific values, either user preferences or only default values, without traversing the hierarchy. To do this, use the following method:`String getStringValue(String fieldName, UserBO userBO, CXMLPunchoutFieldConfigurationAccessType accessType)`


`CXMLPunchoutFieldConfigurationAccessType`

is an enum defined in the interface class `CXMLPunchoutConfigurationProvider`

and has the following types:

`USER_PREFERENCE_ONLY`

- Returns user preferences only

`DEFAULT_VALUE_ONLY`

- Returns default values only (incl. fallbacks)

`USER_PREFERENCE_AND_DEFAULT`

- Returns both

Especially for more complex configurations like `unitmapping`

, it is useful to also provide the values in a structured way. That’s why for some preferences it’s also possible to Get Object Value(s). See next paragraph.

To get the unitmappings in a map, use the following method: `Map<String, String> getUnitMappings(UserBO userBO)`


(Internally, the method `getStringValue("unitmapping", UserBO userBO)`

is used to retrieve value.)

To provide a convenient way to get the `LocaleInformation`

object instead of the string (e.g. “en_US”), the following method can be used:`LocaleInformation getPunchoutLocale(UserBO userBO);`


(Internally, the method `getStringValue("punchout.locale", UserBO userBO)`

is used to retrieve the value.)

To get a list of all defined user-specific preferences, call the method:`List<CXMLPunchoutFieldConfiguration> getUserSpecificConfigurations()`


It is also possible to get the information for a single configuration field:`CXMLPunchoutFieldConfiguration getUserSpecificConfiguration(String fieldName)`


The returned `CXMLPunchoutFieldConfiguration`

object(s) contain(s) additional information, see paragraph [Additional Information for UserPreference Fields](https://knowledge.intershop.com#additional-info), and also the defined default value.

This information is used for UI to change user-specific configurations.

If the hierarchy logic or the source of the configuration must be different in a customized project, it can be replaced. This can be done by implementing your own `customCXMLPunchoutConfigurationProviderImpl`

and using [Concept - Dependency Injection and ObjectGraphs](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1774817917/Concept+-+Dependency+Injection+and+ObjectGraphs) to wire it to the interface.

The cXML standard supports multiple product classifications, such as eCl@ss or UN/SPSC. Some ERP systems require a UN/SPSC classification entry for cXML Punchout.

The ICM cXML Punchout also supports product classifications. All classifications* (see info box below) of a product are automatically included in the cXML `ItemDetail`

section as follows:

<Classification domain="#ClassificationCatalogType#">#AssignedCategory#</Classification> ...

`#ClassificationCatalogType#`

is the placeholder for the classification catalog type, e.g., "eCl@ss", "UNSPSC", "ETIM", and the `#AssignedCategory#`

will be replaced with the assigned category, e.g., "5136030000".

From ICM 12.0.0 only one classification is returned to the "ItemDetail" section. The used classification depends on a global property or user-specific preference. See [Cookbook - cXML Punchout: Recipe How to Adjust the used Classification Catalog](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1938777602/Cookbook+-+cXML+Punchout#Recipe%3A-How-to-Adjust-the-Used-Classification-Catalog-(from-12.0.0))[.](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1938777602/Cookbook+-+cXML+Punchout#cXMLPunchout-Recipe%3AHowtoAdjusttheusedClassificationCatalog(from12.0.0))

The ICM Classification Catalogs are maintained in Intershop Organization Management (see first figure below) as well as in Intershop Commerce Management at the organization level (second picture below).

Intershop Organization Management:

Intershop Commerce Management:

Classification assignments for products can be maintained either in the channel for local channel products or at the organization level for shared products (classification assignments are also shared). The assignment of product classifications to categories is described [here](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1839338148/Concept+-+Classification+Catalog+ETIM#Concept-ClassificationCatalogETIM-6.1ClassificationAttributePages) using ETIM as an example.

For local and shared products, it is necessary to share the classification catalog(s) in the affected channel(s) to include product classifications in the cXML document. This can also be done in the ICM back office (see figures below).

The following artifacts are of interest when developing in the area of Punchout.

The following cartridges contain code artifacts:

|
|
|---|---|
bc_punchout | Common Punchout-related code, valid for both supported standards (OCI, cXML) |
bc_punchout_test | Test cartridge for |
bc_punchout_orm | Common Punchout-related code, valid for both supported standards (OCI, cXML) regarding ORM (persistence) |
bc_punchout_cxml | Includes generated cXML Java classes and some basic functionality for cXML Punchout and cXML order injection |
bc_punchout_cxml_test | Test cartridge for |
app_sf_rest_b2b_punchout | Punchout WebShop REST API (OCI and cXML) |
app_sf_rest_b2b_punchout_test | Test cartridge for |
app_sf_rest_b2b_punchout_cxml | Since 12.2.0: New major version (v3) of Punchout cXML WebShop REST API (only cXML) |
app_sf_rest_b2b_punchout_cxml_test | Since 12.2.0: Test cartridge for |
ac_cxml_order_injection | Punchout order injection REST API ( |
ac_cxml_order_injection_test | Test cartridge for |
init_b2b (partly) | Roles and permissions |
b2b (partly) | REST tests based on Spock ( |

For cXML Punchout, there is a role and a set of permissions:

|
|
|---|---|
APP_B2B_CXML_USER | The B2B cXML user |

Available permissions for the role:

|
|
|---|---|
APP_B2B_VIEW_PUNCHOUT | Permission to view available Punchout standards and their details |
APP_B2B_MANAGE_PUNCHOUT | Permission to manage Punchout users and configurations |
APP_B2B_SEND_CXML_BASKET | Permission to allow transferring cXML baskets. This permission is assigned to the role |
APP_B2B_SEND_PUNCHOUT_BASKET | Permission to send a Punchout basket using any Punchout standard, currently OCI and cXML. This permission is assigned to the role |

The Punchout user may have Punchout standard-specific roles. Currently, `APP_B2B_CXML_USER`

in the *punchoutconfiguration.properties *is set for cXML Punchout.

The cXML user has limited access to storefront functionality such as quotes. Therefore, the storefront user's role is checked.

A Punchout standard can be configured in the *punchoutconfiguration.properties* (see `bc_punchout`

). The Punchout user roles and also individual fields can be specified via the Punchout standard there.

The cXML standard, however, has only a configured role in the properties file. Any other configuration is not configured in this properties file.

Intershop Commerce Management comes with the OCI Punchout standard, and as of 7.10.31 with the cXML Punchout standard as well.

**Punchout Standard**

# e.g., punchout.configuration.standards=oci,<punchout-type> punchout.configuration.standard=oci,cxml

For the existing cXML Punchout standard, the `APP_B2B_CXML_USER`

role is set by default for specific Punchout users in Intershop Commerce Management.

**Punchout-specific user roles**

# Define the users related to a given punchout type # e.g., <punchout-standard>.users.roles=<my-custom-role>,<another-custom-role> cxml.users.roles=APP_B2B_CXML_USER

To achieve easy exchangeability and extensibility also for cXML Punchout, a handler chain for the transfer basket action has been implemented and is executed when calling POST on */customers/{CustomerKey}/punchout/cxml1.2/transfer*. Some of the handlers are version-independent and some work with version-specific classes.

Implemented handlers for 7.10.36.0 are:

|
|
|
|---|---|---|
CreateCXMLPunchoutHandlerV2 | Handler that creates the cXML object that is sent to the procurement system | no |
CreateLicenseTransactionCXMLPunchoutHandler | Handler that creates a license transaction for the cXML transfer basket action | yes |
RemoveSessionCXMLPunchoutHandler | Handler that removes the cXML session | yes |
MoveBasketToHistoryCXMLPunchoutHandler | Handler that moves the Punchout basket to the basket history | yes |

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.