---
id: '195b747c79e18b12969b69a7708531d5'
title: 'Order Import and Export'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32860S'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:16.758102+00:00'
---
# Order Import and Export

Intershop Commerce Management can export orders and import order status information, see [Order Import and Export: Concept](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/orders_fulfillment/concept_order_export_and_import.html). For the order export and the order status import to work, corresponding services must be properly set up for your organization.

The Order Import & Export manager is divided into two sections, Order Export and Order Status Import. Each section includes a list of the corresponding export or import configurations.

## Creating New Configurations

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Orders | Import & Export.
This displays the Order Import & Export manager, showing the Order Export and Order Status Import sections.
-
In the corresponding section, click New.
This displays the General tab of a new order export or order status import configuration.
-
Provide the general information as required.
Mandatory information includes name and configuration type. Optionally, a description can be provided.
-
Click Apply.
The new configuration is created. All other tabs become active.
-
Change to the other tabs to specify all data as required.
For export configurations, this includes actions, scheduling and conditions. For import configurations, this includes scheduling. For details, see the configuration data tables in
[Order Import and Export: Concept](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/orders_fulfillment/concept_order_export_and_import.html).

## Running Export/Import Manually

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Orders | Import & Export.
This displays the Order Import & Export manager, showing the Order Export and Order Status Import sections.
-
In the corresponding section, select the configuration to use for the export or import job and click the Run button.
This starts the export or import job with the selected configuration. Click the Refresh button to update the current page.Note:For export jobs, make sure that the configured local directory to which the exported file is written exists. For import jobs, make sure that the file to be imported exists in the configured location.

## Running Export/Import Automatically

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Orders | Import & Export.
This displays the Order Import & Export manager, showing the Order Export and Order Status Import sections.
- In the corresponding section, click the name of the intended configuration.
- Change to the Scheduling tab.
-
Specify the execution interval for the current configuration, then click Apply.
The order export/order status import process with the selected configuration will be executed as a scheduled job in the defined interval.

## Enabling/Disabling Status Updates for Order Exports

The order export of Intershop Commerce Management allows to export orders to ERP systems or order management systems, which take responsibility for further order processing. During the export, the order status of each exported order is set to the specified order state transition or EXPORTFAILED (in case of export errors). However, this behavior is not always desired. For instance, for exports to reporting systems such as the [Intershop BI Data Hub](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/297S28) or external tools, the order status as well as the line item status should usually remain unchanged. Therefore, Intershop Commerce Management provides the option to enable or disable status updates for order exports.

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Orders | Import & Export.
This displays the Order Import & Export manager, showing the Order Export and Order Status Import sections.
-
Open the order export configuration to be adjusted. For creating a new configuration, refer to
[Creating New Configurations](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/orders_fulfillment/topic_order_export_and_import1.html#task_order_impex_create).The order export detail page opens. - Switch to the Actions tab.
-
Uncheck Enable status updates to disable status updates or check it to enable status updates.
By default, status updates are enabled.