---
id: '1b2ad6d41b62001f6e79b3640c6fe164'
title: 'Reference'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/30960D'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:29:39.642418+00:00'
---
The Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) provides an extensive asynchronous API for import and export of business objects.

This reference includes all available schema files.

This document is for developers who want to integrate various systems with ICM.

|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|
| |||
Catalog, Product, Product and Category Links, Product Data Feed (Standard Feed) | 7.1 | Also see | |
Image View, Image Type, Image Set | 6.7 | ||
Price List | 7.1 |
| |
Catalog View/ Catalog Filter | 7.0 | ||
Predefined Product Filter/ Search Query Definition | 6.5 | There was a compatible API change to this schema with 7.10.5.3 to accommodate the customer-specific assortment feature. The version number was not increased. | |
Product Attribute Group | 7.10 | Also see There was a compatible API change to this schema with 7.10.5.3/7.10.6 to control the accessibility of data via REST API. The version number was not increased. | |
Product List | 6.5 | For instance, wish list, quote. | |
| |||
Customer (B2B) | 7.3 | A customer is a container for users. One B2B customer contains at least one user. Also see | |
Customer (B2C) | 7.3 | A customer is a container for users. One B2C customer contains Also see There was a compatible API change to this schema with 7.10.20.x. Version number of format has not been changed. | |
User (Shop) | 7.3 | The user represents the person which is using the storefront. Additionally, a Also see There was a compatible API change to this schema with 7.10.20.x. Version number of format has not been changed. | |
| |||
Promotion Codes | 6.6 | ||
Promotion | 6.6 | ||
Promotion Code Group | 6.6 | ||
| |||
CMS Elements | 6.5 | Components, Pages, etc. | |
| |||
Address | 7.8 | Also see There was a compatible API change to this schema with 7.10.20.x. Version number of format has not been changed. | |
| |||
Region | 6.5 | ||
| |||
Freight Classes, Shipping Eligibility | 6.5 | ||
Shipping Method | 6.5 | ||
Shipping Rules | 6.5 | ||
| |||
Order Export | 6.6 | See | |
Order Status Import | 7.0 | ||
Order (Enfinity 6.4) | 6.3 | Import orders from Enfinity 6.4. | |
| |||
User (Commerce Management) | 6.3.1 | Also see There was a compatible API change to this schema with 7.10.20.x. Version number of format has not been changed. | |
Store | 6.3.1 | ||
Short Links | 6.3 | ||
Localization/Translation | 7.4 | ||
| |||
Data Types | 6.5 | ||
Core | 6.5 |

The schema files (XSD) are located in:*<IS_IMPEX_SCHEMA>* (which is */intershop/impex/schema* in the container).

Since ICM 11.11.3 and 12.2.1, it is possible to additionally provide your own schema files for the import by placing the custom schema files in your cartridge within:*<cartridge_name>/src/main/resources/resources/<cartridge_name>/impex/schema*.

For XSDs in GitHub, see [https://github.com/intershop/intershop.github.io](https://github.com/intershop/intershop.github.io).

For the Java binding (XML parser and models), see the Java repository: [https://github.com/intershop/intershop-xsd](https://github.com/intershop/intershop-xsd).

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.