---
id: '1d2ecba7da488000fdf56498f5fcd84e'
title: 'Video Tutorial - Promotions Part 3'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2H8494'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:42.265583+00:00'
---
This document replaces the outdated article with the ID *23B366* and the title *Video Tutorials: Promotions with Intershop 7*.

Promotions are an important marketing instrument with the intention to push the sales and to increase the customer satisfaction. A promotion applies to predefined customer segments, products and time periods. Specific discounts like reduced prices, bonus products, free shipping etc. can be offered via a promotion. This Video Tutorial gives an introduction to promotion banners and shows how to add them to the storefront easily.


Select the corresponding slot.

In newer ICM versions, *Overwrite *needs to be clicked to make the slot editable.

As the *Template* choose *Common Image Teaser*, because the slot is within a common section of the standard home page.

In newer ICM versions, the template *Common Image Teaser *is no longer available. It is possible to select *Enhanced Image Teaser* as the template instead.

Click on the *Assign...* button under *Promotion*.

In newer ICM versions, this configuration cannot be done here. Instead, the banner needs to be connected to the promotion through the data view. For that, please do the following steps:

Select the promotion and click on *Assign*.

Click on *Save*. The promotion banner is now ready to be visible as long as the promotion duration has been set.

Click on *Apply & Refresh*.

In newer ICM versions, the *Apply & Refresh* button is replaced with an *OK *button.

Enter the name of the created component under *Name or Content* and click on *Find*.

The component can also be edited here.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.