---
id: '1da657933dd4705e250b8c2def951fd3'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/L28941'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:40:43.252804+00:00'
---
This guide describes two approaches for staging in an MS SQL environment: Two databases on one server and one database on two servers each.

In case both databases use the same login on one server, the databases do know each other. That means, a query for one database can access the data of the other database by identifying it with the full qualified name.

In this case, the database `is_live`

accesses the table `DOMAININFORMATION`

of database `is_edit.`


In case the databases use different logins, they do not know each other. Instead, they behave like they are on two different servers.

If the database has to access a database from another database server or the databases have different logins, a linked server must be created.

A detailed documentation on how to create one can be found here: [Create Linked Servers (SQL Server Database Engine)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/linked-servers/create-linked-servers-sql-server-database-engine?view=sql-server-2017).

Such a database link can be created with the Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio, or with a script.

After manually creating a database link in the Studio, the link can be exported as script for reusing.

For creating linked servers using the Management Studio, the *CONTROL SERVER* permission or a membership in the *sysadmin* fixed server role is required.

When using T-SQL statements, the *ALTER ANY LINKED SERVER* permission or a membership in the *setupadmin* fixed server role is required.

Refer to [Create Linked Servers (SQL Server Database Engine)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/linked-servers/create-linked-servers-sql-server-database-engine?view=sql-server-2017#Security) for further information.

The dialog for creating a linked server connection:

The following statement can be used for reading the table `DOMAININFORMATION`

using a linked server.

The notation is simply the linked server name, followed by the name of the database and the used schema, in this case followed by `dbo`

.

use is_live; GO select * from [jdevpool01].is_edit.dbo.DOMAININFORMATION

To manually create a DB-Link perform the following steps:

Click *Ok*.

Info

The *Server Options* do not have to be changed.

For exporting the linked server as a script, right click the newly created connection and choose *Script Linked Server as | CREATE to | New Query Editor Window *to export it as SQL query.

The SQL-script can be used for the creation of a database-link, see [CreateConnection.sql](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Deliver/DOC/L28941/CreateConnection.sql).

DECLARE @var_server NVARCHAR(MAX) = 'TARGET_SERVER_HOSTNAME', @var_locallogin NVARCHAR(MAX) = 'LOCAL_LOGIN', -- @var_currentlogin NVARCHAR(MAX) = 'OPTIONAL_SECOND_LOCAL_LOGIN', @var_rmtuser NVARCHAR(MAX) = 'TARGET_SERVER_USERNAME', @var_rmtpassword NVARCHAR(MAX) = 'TARGET_SERVER_PASSWORD'; -- If the server do exists: -- EXEC sp_dropserver @var_server, 'droplogins' EXEC sp_addlinkedserver @server = @var_server, @srvproduct=N'SQL Server' EXEC sp_addlinkedsrvlogin @rmtsrvname=@var_server,@useself=N'False',@locallogin=@var_locallogin,@rmtuser=@var_rmtuser,@rmtpassword=@var_rmtpassword -- EXEC sp_addlinkedsrvlogin @rmtsrvname=@var_server,@useself=N'False',@locallogin=@var_currentlogin,@rmtuser=@var_rmtuser,@rmtpassword=@var_rmtpassword EXEC sp_serveroption @server=@var_server, @optname=N'collation compatible', @optvalue=N'false' EXEC sp_serveroption @server=@var_server, @optname=N'data access', @optvalue=N'true' EXEC sp_serveroption @server=@var_server, @optname=N'dist', @optvalue=N'false' EXEC sp_serveroption @server=@var_server, @optname=N'pub', @optvalue=N'false' EXEC sp_serveroption @server=@var_server, @optname=N'rpc', @optvalue=N'false' EXEC sp_serveroption @server=@var_server, @optname=N'rpc out', @optvalue=N'false' EXEC sp_serveroption @server=@var_server, @optname=N'sub', @optvalue=N'false' EXEC sp_serveroption @server=@var_server, @optname=N'connect timeout', @optvalue=N'0' EXEC sp_serveroption @server=@var_server, @optname=N'collation name', @optvalue=null EXEC sp_serveroption @server=@var_server, @optname=N'lazy schema validation', @optvalue=N'false' EXEC sp_serveroption @server=@var_server, @optname=N'query timeout', @optvalue=N'0' EXEC sp_serveroption @server=@var_server, @optname=N'use remote collation', @optvalue=N'true' EXEC sp_serveroption @server=@var_server, @optname=N'remote proc transaction promotion', @optvalue=N'true' GO

All the manual changes are in the first lines.

The variable `@var_server`

must have the hostname of the linked server as value.

The variable `@var_locallogin`

must have the username that the local server will use as value. That is the database username of the live-system.

The variable `@var_rmtuser`

must have the username for the linked server as value. That is the database username of the edit-system.

The variable `@var_rmtpassword`

must have the password for the linked server as value. That is the database password of the edit-system.

Optional:

If lines 4 and 10 are uncommented, the variable `@var_currentlogin`

can be set as another login. The idea is, that the person who will create this link must have the admin-role. Also, the person might want to test SQL statements that utilize the database link. The server does not need the admin-role and should not have it. Therefore, anther login for the creator of the database link has to be created.

All the lines below line 10 just declare default values and can be removed, except the command `GO`

.

It is required that both databases are located in the same managed instance. A linked server across multiple managed instances is not possible.

Create a new linked server:

EXEC master.dbo.sp_addlinkedserver @server = N'<LINKED SERVER NAME>', @srvproduct=N'', @provider=N'SQLNCLI11', @provstr=N'Server=<SERVER_DNS_NAME>;Initial Catalog=master;Persist Security Info=False;MultipleActiveResultSets=FalseEncrypt=yes;TrustServerCertificate=yes;Connection Timeout=30;User ID=<EDIT USER>' GO

The name of the linked server can be choosen freely. In the {{provstr}} attribute the server DNS name has to be specified. This can be determined by executing {{SELECT @@SERVERNAME}}. Furthermore it is required to add the name if the EDIT database user as {{User ID}}.

Run the following test script to verify that the linked server was successfully created:

Configure the remote login:

EXEC master.dbo.sp_addlinkedsrvlogin @rmtsrvname=N'<LINKED SERVER NAME>',@useself=N'False',@locallogin=N'<LIVE USER NAME>',@rmtuser=N'<EDIT USER NAME>',@rmtpassword='<EDIT USER PASSWORD>' GO

Some configurations on the edit system are required to enable staging.

The *staging.properties* are stored under *<ISShare>/system/config/cluster/staging.properties*:

staging.system.type=editing staging.process.EntityParallelism.mssql=1

In the current version, for MSSQL the parallel processing is not supported. Therefore, the property `staging.process.EntityParallelism.mssql`

has to be set to `1`

.

The *replication-clusters.xml* is stored under *<ISShare>/system/config/custer/replication-clusters.xml.*

In this XML file, the connection to the live-system is configured.

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?> <replication-configuration xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.intershop.com/xml/ns/enfinity/7.5.0/core/replication replication.xsd" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="http://www.intershop.com/xml/ns/enfinity/7.5.0/core/replication"> <target-clusters> <target-cluster id="DEV7_EDIT"> <target-systems> <target-system id="DEV8_LIVE" active="true"> <webserver-url>http://host-live:81</webserver-url> <source-server-group>BOS</source-server-group> <target-server-group>BOS</target-server-group> <source-database-link>db-schema-edit.dbo</source-database-link> </target-system> </target-systems> </target-cluster> </target-clusters> </replication-configuration>

The important thing here is to configure the URL of the live-system. The staging is based on a webservice-call from the edit to the live-system.

The edit-system tells the live-system the name of a db-link from the live-db to the edit-db with the content of the tag `source-database-link`

. In a normal environment, such a link for MSSQL has to end on dbo. A database could be configured to another value than dbo.

As long as the databases are hosted within the same server, they do know each other an simply have to be addressed by name.

In the XML file, the database-link to the live-server has to be inserted, including the database name.

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?> <replication-configuration xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.intershop.com/xml/ns/enfinity/7.5.0/core/replication replication.xsd" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="http://www.intershop.com/xml/ns/enfinity/7.5.0/core/replication"> <target-clusters> <target-cluster id="DEV7_EDIT"> <target-systems> <target-system id="DEV8_LIVE" active="true"> <webserver-url>http://host-live:81</webserver-url> <source-server-group>BOS</source-server-group> <target-server-group>BOS</target-server-group> <source-database-link>[db-host-edit].db-schema-edit.dbo</source-database-link> </target-system> </target-systems> </target-cluster> </target-clusters> </replication-configuration>

The important thing here is the `source-database-link`

. It is the name of the link like it is in the database in brackets, followed by the name of the used database on the server and the namespace, here `dbo`

.

The staging.properties are under *<ISShare>/system/config/cluster/staging.properties*

staging.system.type=live staging.process.EntityParallelism.mssql=1

The live system must have `live`

set as the staging type, analogous to the edit system that uses the staging type `edit`

.

Also, the property `staging.process.EntityParallelism.mssql`

must be set to 1.

On the edit system, a normal dbinit can be performed with

.**dbinit -classic**

A copy of the edit system is required on the live system. This is because staging fails if the UUIDs of the domains on the systems are different.

The Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio can be used for that.

To create a staging task perform the following steps:

Info

A staging task can be created in the master-domain, like inSPIRED, or in a sub-domain like inTRONICS.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.