---
id: '1df5f353495670729202f0ee33602c99'
title: 'Creating Customer'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3251L3'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:40.575576+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/3251L3

# Creating Customer

To create a new customer account:
-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Customers | Customers.
This displays all customers and users in a single list view.

-
Click New and select, as required, Individual Customer or Business Customer.
The corresponding customer detail view is displayed.

-
In the General tab, specify the required information for the new customer.
For individual customers, specify at least customer ID, first name, last name and e-mail/login. Date of birth, preferred language, phone/fax numbers as well as the activation flag and the external customer ID are optional. For business customers, specify at least ID and company name. Taxation ID, industry, description as well as the activation flag and the external customer ID are optional.

-
Click Apply.
The new customer account is created. All other tabs become active.

-
Specify, as necessary, the information in all other tabs.
Click Apply to save your settings.


## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.