---
id: '1e9eaca8d58acf4ff8242041ec77f76d'
title: 'Activate GroupsToRun in Reworked Update Shop Statistics Job'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3A1183'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:24.472246+00:00'
---
This migration guide describes changes related to the [Update Shop Statistics](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1751057180) job.

The Job *Update Shop Statistics* can create high input/output-related load on the database with a large number of products. Restricting the statistical calculation to the groups that are necessary instead of calculating everything helps improve the performance. For this purpose, the reworked job pipeline allows for passing an optional attribute called *GroupsToRun*, which can specify the groups that will be calculated. A comma-separated list specifies the groups for which the statistical calculation needs to be done.

New behavior:

If the attribute *GroupsToRun *is added to the *Update Shop Statistics *job, calculation will only run for the groups that are added to the attribute value.

An incorrect value will result in the calculation of only the groups identifiable as an attribute value.

If none of the entered values can be identified or the value is empty, no group will be calculated.

If the attribute *GroupsToRun* is not configured in the *Update Shop Statistics* job, all groups will be calculated, just as it was before the change. This allows backward compatibility for all installations where performance can be neglected (e.g., preproduction systems).

Valid values are:

*Product*

*CMS*

*Promotion*

*Order*

The following example of the *GroupsToRun* attribute configuration will run statistical calculation for the order and CMS group only, excluding product and promotion.

Attribute Name: *GroupsToRun*

Attribute Type: *String*

Attribute Value: *Order,CMS*

No migration is required if the additional attribute is not used.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.