---
id: '1fad50e3dd61df5bb304bc5e72c81022'
title: 'Creating Affiliate Partners'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3G2572'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:23.034329+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/3G2572

# Creating Affiliate Partners

To create an affiliate partner:
-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Marketing | Affiliate Partners.
This displays a list of all affiliate partners.

-
Click New.
The details view for the new affiliate partner is displayed.

-
Specify general information for the affiliate partner.
Specify a name, a unique ID, and a descriptive text for the affiliate partner.

-
Click Apply.
When you create the new affiliate partner, the store entry URL specifically for the affiliate partner becomes available.

Customers that enter your site via this URL are allocated to the respective customer segment and can be handled accordingly. Distribute this URL to the affiliate partner site.

You can now manage contact information for the partner, view access statistics, and define special programs conducted by the affiliate partner.


## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.