---
id: '1fe79e3512dbdc9ecc545c9f34c4ef66'
title: 'Searching Components'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/K32496'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:46.372177+00:00'
---
# Searching Components

## Simple Component Search

To use the Simple Search mask:

-
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Components.
This opens the Components list view.
-
Specify the component name or component content to be retrieved.
If necessary, select a component type to narrow the search.Note:It is not possible to search for content of shared components with overwritten content, see
[Managing Shared Content Modifications](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/content_management/topic_managing_shared_content_modifications.html#task_page_share_mod). The search always produces results based on the original content. -
Click Find.
The results are displayed in the list view.

Tip:

The Simple Search mask is displayed by default. If you previously used the Advanced Search mask, click Switch to Simple Search.

## Advanced Component Search

-
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Components.
This opens the Components list view. The Simple Search mask is displayed by default.
- Click Switch to Advanced Search.
-
Specify your search criteria in the corresponding fields.
The corresponding fields are self-explanatory.Note:It is not possible to search for content of shared components with overwritten content (see
[Managing Shared Content Modifications](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/content_management/topic_managing_shared_content_modifications.html#task_page_share_mod)). The search always produces results based on the original content.Tip:Page or component filters restrict the search to components that are assigned to the filtered pages or components. Creating filters constitutes an additional (advanced) search for the corresponding object. Once the filter is created and applied, you are taken back to the original advanced component search. -
Click Find.
The results are displayed in the list view.