---
id: '21c2070c048ff1bfd11a30add930645d'
title: 'Public Release Note'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/28514Z'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:37:08.928349+00:00'
---
The SolrCloud Search Service Adapter connects the Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) with a Solr server that runs in cloud mode. It replaces the Solr search service adapter delivered with the ICM release and uses a more recent version of Solr and its features. The search index configuration and maintenance in the ICM back office is almost the same but uses the Schema- and ConfigSet-REST-APIs provided by the newer Solr server version. Thus, the Solr Server is separated and independent from the ICM application server cluster.

Intershop Commerce Management | SolrCloud Search Service Adapter | Solr Server |
|---|---|---|
7.9.+ | 1.0.8 | 6.6.+ |
7.10.9+ | 1.0.8 | 6.6.+ |

* *The following table lists the cartridges contained in the SolrCloud Adapter:

Cartridge | Description | Required |
|---|---|---|
ac_solr_cloud | The main implementation cartridge of the adapter defining and registering the search service | |
ac_solr_cloud_bo | Additional functionality for the commerce management application. It provides additional configuration options for the index management, especially for suggest and spell-check. |

The cartridges need to be deployed as a replacement of the Solr cartridges delivered by default (*ac_search_solr*, *ac_search_solr_bo*). These are part of the ICM component set *f_business* or (better to say) *intershop7* assembly. Please see [Recipe - Setup Project Using SolR Cloud](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1826510540/Cookbook+-+Deployment+Tools+ICM+7.9#Cookbook-DeploymentToolsICM7.9-Recipe-SetupprojectusingSolRCloud) on how to setup your project to use the SolrCloud Search Service Adapter.

The SolrCloud Search Service Adapter requires a Solr server that runs in cloud mode. Please see the [Guide - Deployment Solr Cloud Server](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1827480091/Guide+-+Deployment+Solr+Cloud+Server) on how to setup a Solr server for development or production. This guide also provides information on how to configure the ICM to use a Solr server.

The data replication of indexes has changed with this adapter implementation. The standard file replication with the index location at ICM's shared file system is not used anymore to replicate index data. Instead, the adapter comes with its own replication decorator. Please see [Guide - Solr Replication](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1827645754/Guide+-+Solr+Replication) for the description and configuration of the index replication with the SolrCloud server.

Key | Summary |
|---|---|
| |
|

The release reverts the* solrcloud_config* changes introduced with release 1.0.1. If release 1.0.1 or 1.0.2 was used, revert the changes to the *build.gradle.*

The adapter contains a new cartridge *solrcloud_config*. You need to include this cartridge into the deployment by adding it into the *project_assembly* *build.gradle* file. Please see [Recipe - Setup Project Using SolR Cloud](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1826510540/Cookbook+-+Deployment+Tools+ICM+7.9#Cookbook-DeploymentToolsICM7.9-Recipe-SetupprojectusingSolRCloud).

**project_assembly/build.gradle**

... def solrCloudProductionCartridges = [ 'ac_solr_cloud', 'ac_solr_cloud_bo', ] include('com.intershop.solrcloud:ac_solr_cloud', 'com.intershop.solrcloud:ac_solr_cloud_bo', 'com.intershop.solrcloud:solrcloud_config', in:[development, test, production]) ...

To fix [ISSEA-68](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/o/40829) - Indexes with more than one shard - total amount of indexed objects wrong a new method `CoreAdminResponse getCoreStatus(String coreName, String url) throws ServerException`

was added to interface `com.intershop.adapter.search_solr.server.Server`

.

You do not have to adapt your code as we deliver a default interface implementation which just calls `getCoreStatus(String coreName)`

.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.