---
id: '22110cb7f637308b24c6ed2cddb7dc9b'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2T8921'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:37:14.246682+00:00'
---
Intershop Commerce Management allows for maintaining variation products. This is often used for "Size" and "Color" options of one product which does not differ much apart from these attributes. However, any kind of custom attribute can be used as variation attribute.

This concept gives an overview of the ideas and features of variation products.

The target group is mainly the Product Content Editor.

Note

The display and filtering of variations relies on the SolR search server.

| Name | Description |
|---|---|
| Product | An item that is sold in the online shop. |
| Variation Product | A product that is offered in multiple variants that share most of their attribute values, but differ at some of them. A variation product describes one specific combination of variation attributes, e.g., T-shirt, color: blue, size: M. A variation product can be purchased. |
| Variation Master | A virtual/abstract grouping of variation products, without variation attribute values, e.g., T-shirt. Cannot be purchased, has no own price - but can be used for displaying purposes. |

Product variations can be displayed differently in the storefront, depending on the products sold in the shop as well as on the business model (B2C or B2B). This concept presents the most common ways and explains how to make the correct configuration in Intershop Commerce Management.

The different ways of displaying the product variations correspond to a specific search index configuration that is required to get the desired result. It depends on the presence or absence of specific attributes in the indexes. The following table summarizes the different approaches that are shown in the following sections and are discussed in detail in the [Cookbook - Product Search Configuration](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1811760732/Cookbook+-+Product+Search+Configuration).

| Individual | Master Aggregated Values | Grouped Variations | Master & Variations | |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Requirements for Indexed Attributes and Data Providers |
No attributes with |
All variation attributes with | GroupMasterUUID DefaultVariation No index attributes with |
MasterUUID isMastered All variation attributes with |
| What is in the index? | Master products (if not excluded) and product variations | Master products and aggregated values of the variation attributes at the product master for the attributes that are indexed with ProductVariationAV | All variation products and its individual values – no master products nor any values of the master product | Master products with aggregated values and all product variations with individual values |
| Category Assignment | Assignment of master and variation products | Assignment of master products – individual variation assignment has no effect | Depends on configuration Only assignment of master product by default | Assignment of master products |
| Product Search Configuration Recipe |
ProductVariationAV data provider |

Display in Storefront (sections below)

Simple setup

Only master product data indexed (e.g., description and price)

Filter values and filter values count do not consider non-existing combinations

Performance degrades with high number of filters

No list view in product detail page

In general, all combinations of variation values exist

List view in product detail page

Search with variation value data

High variation count

List view in product detail page

High variation count

High filter count

If the products differ visually (e.g., different colors) and the number of variations is low, it is recommended to display product variations in the shop.

On family and search pages, the *default variation* is shown. In case filters in the filter navigation are used, a suitable variation (e.g., of the selected color) is displayed.

Clicking on such a product displays the product detail page of exactly this product with the option to switch to the other variations.

Info

| Page | Details | Screenshot |
|---|---|---|
Family Page (also applies to search results page) | On family and search pages, the Controls (color swatches or drop-downs) below the product indicate that this product is also available in different versions. The controls can be used to switch between the different options without leaving the page. | |
Family Page - filtered (also applies to search results page) | If a filter is set, another - better fitting - variation is displayed. This is usually the desired behavior for products with different colors, e.g., clothes. | |
| Product Detail Page | Clicking on a product variation on a family or search page leads to the details page of this exact variation. The controls allow to switch between the different variations. |

Go to *<Channel Name>* | *Preferences* | *Product Variations.*

Deselect the checkbox for *List View.*

Click *Apply.*

If you are starting with the settings from the inSPIRED demo content, no changes to the search index are necessary. This applies also if you only switch between "Show Variation Master" and "Show Variation Products (Grouped)".

If you are starting from scratch or from "Show Variation Products (Individually)", you need to configure the search index. You can choose from the following configuration of the search index configurations described in the [Cookbook - Product Search Configuration](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1811760732/Cookbook+-+Product+Search+Configuration):

Info

Depending on the configuration, it is necessary to assign the* variation master* to categories, or to assign the *variation products* to categories in addition.

Info

If you switch from "Display Variation Products (Individually)" to another configuration, make sure to remove the *ExcludeFromSearchIndex *attribute from the variation master products.

In some cases it is necessary to list all variation products separately in the shop.

On family and search pages, *all variations* are displayed. In case filters in the filter navigation are used, all suitable variations (e.g., of the selected color) are displayed.

Clicking on such a product displays the product detail page of exactly this product with the option to switch to the other variations.

| Page | Details | Screenshot |
|---|---|---|
Family Page (also applies to search results page) | On family and search pages, Controls (color swatches or drop downs) below the product indicate that this product is also available in different versions. The controls can be used to switch between the different options without leaving the page. | |
Family Page - filtered (also applies to search results page) | If filters are set, all matching variations are displayed. | |
| Product Detail Page | Clicking on a product variation on a family or search page leads to the details page of this exact variation. The controls allow for switching between the different variations. |

With this configuration, it is recommended to exclude the master from the search index. Otherwise it will be listed as default variation in the search result. See [Cookbook - Product Search Configuration - Exclude Products From Search](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1811760732/Cookbook+-+Product+Search+Configuration#Cookbook-ProductSearchConfiguration-RecipeExcludeProductsFromSearch).

For large numbers of variations (several hundreds for one master) and/or multiple variation attributes there is an alternative view. Here the product master is displayed on family and search pages.

Clicking on the product leads to a product detail page of the master with an advanced filter panel which allows for further drill-down to identify the desired variation.

Info

| Page | Details | Screenshot |
|---|---|---|
Family Page (also applies to search results page) | The master product is displayed with
| |
Family Page - filtered (also applies to search results page) | When one or multiple filters are set, the master is still displayed. Example: "Color: red" is set, the master displays a black product. The number of | |
Product Detail Page - Master | The basic idea is to enable a product master detail page to work like a family page. The product detail page displays information on the master product (name, ID, descriptions etc.). The Below the general information there is a complete list of all variations of this master product with a filter panel and a pagination function. The view can be switched between "Tile" and "List" view and the sorting order can be changed. Filters can be used to find the desired variation, which then can be purchased. If a filter has been set on the family page, it is also set on the variation master page (in case the filter affects a variation attribute). The variation products can be added to the cart directly from the list, or the product detail page can be opened to get more information. | |
| Product Detail Page - Variation | Clicking on a product from the variation master page opens a regular product detail page of this exact variation. Go back to the Product Detail Page - Master by using the |

Go to *<Channel Name>* | *Preferences* | *Product Variations.*

Select the checkbox for *List View.*

Click *Apply.*

Use one of the following search index configurations

Info

If you switch from "Display Variation Products (Individually)" to another configuration, make sure to remove the *ExcludeFromSearchIndex *attribute from the variation master products.

The configuration of the Product Master Detail Page is located in the *Product Detail* component template (`cmp_tmp_productDetail`

) that can be found in* Content* | *Component Templates*. Different product views - *List* and *Tile *- can be selected and the sorting can be configured as shown in the following picture.

Info

For this configuration it is sufficient to assign the *variation master* to categories. The category assignments of the master product are indexed by default - so all variation products are found, even if not categorized.

If you want to change this behavior, please see [Index Variation Products - Grouped](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1811760732/Cookbook+-+Product+Search+Configuration#Cookbook-ProductSearchConfiguration-RecipeIndexVariationProducts-Grouped). In this case, make sure that the *variation products* are assigned to the respective categories.

In order to properly migrate the product variations feature from earlier ICM versions to ICM 7.9, the preference to enable/disable the list view for product variations (`EnableAdvancedVariationHandling`

) is required. A new file * migration-to-7.9.0.0.properties *has been added to the *app_sf_responsive* cartridge. After executing the standard command `dbmigrate`

, the preference will be available in the database.

If the variation list is not visible on the variation master page:

`GroupMasterUUID`

or `MasterUUID`

.Note

This section is valid from Intershop 7.10.5.3.

Product variations can differ by color. One way to display different color variation in the storefront is the swatch image, see [Display Variation Products](https://intershop.atlassian.net/wiki/pages/resumedraft.action?draftId=1865155376#Concept-ProductVariations7.10-ShowVariationProducts) in this document[.](https://intershop.atlassian.net/wiki/pages/resumedraft.action?draftId=1865155376)

Swatch images can be maintained via product custom attributes or via image management.

This source uses a custom attribute that is stored at each variation product. The name of that custom attribute is configurable per variation attribute and then uses an internal swatch image reference (shared file system only).

This source uses the image management to define the image source. The image management is used for all other product images as well and allows for having internal and external images (e.g., from an image server).

There are two ways to change the image source:

This screenshot shows where to change the swatch image source.

The responsive demo storefront provides several ways variation attributes are displayed. For each variation attribute used in a master product with its variation products, a configuration can be set to define how the variation attribute values are displayed. Possible choices are: *Default*, *Swatch Image*, *Default and Swatch Image*, *HTML Color Code* and *Default and HTML Color Code*. The following picture shows an example of how two variation attributes can be displayed: The first (Color) is set to swatch and the second (Hard disk drive capacity) is set to default.

The V*ariations* tab of a master product lists all existing variation attributes. Furthermore, new ones can be created there.

By clicking on the link of the the attribute name or ID, the *Variation Selection Type* can be changed.

If a selection with *Swatch Image* or *HTML Color Code* is chosen, a *Product Attribute Name* must be entered for the feature to work. This *Product Attribute Name* must then be provided at each variation product to either define a swatch image or a color code. If the [Swatch Image Source](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Concept-ProductVariations7.10-swatch_image_sources) is set to *Image Management,* the *Product Attribute Name* is not used.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.