---
id: '224b3c4612fffa3326f118a7400513aa'
title: 'Generating Java Dumps'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/33756Z'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:30:56.764596+00:00'
---
# Generating Java Dumps

Using the Dump Generation manager, system administrators can create memory dumps for selected servers, namely thread dumps and heap dumps. For information on available information types, refer to [Generating Java Dumps: Information Types](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/smc_en/topics/installation_maintenance/task_generating_java_dumps.html#generating_java_dumps__information_types).

-
In the Intershop System Management navigation bar, open Installation Maintenance | Dump Generation.
The Dump Generation detail page is displayed.
- Open either the Thread dump tab or the Heap dump tab.
- In the Application Server section, select the intended application server(s) and click Apply.
-
In the Information section, select the required information type(s) and click Apply.
For details about the available information types, see the table
[Generating Java Dumps: Information Types](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/smc_en/topics/installation_maintenance/task_generating_java_dumps.html#generating_java_dumps__information_types). -
Click Create thread dump or, respectively, Create heap dump.
The corresponding memory dump is generated immediately.

The dump files are created in a VisualVM-compatible format, which allows for a convenient visual representation of the dump data. The generated files are available in the information files manager. For further details, see [Managing Information Files](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/smc_en/topics/installation_maintenance/topic_managing_information_files.html#managing_information_files_1).

## Generating Java Dumps: Information Types

The following table lists the information that is available for each dump type.

| Information Type | Dump Type | Description |
|---|---|---|
| Locked Monitors | Thread dump | Information about locked monitors |
| Locked Synchronizers | Thread dump | Information about locked synchronizers |
| Live Objects | Heap dump | Information about live objects, i.e., objects that are accessible by other objects |