---
id: '224f46cdeb47ccb44372d9d0b82a991f'
title: 'Reference'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/30E063'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:31.676311+00:00'
---
This reference describes the pre-configured Intershop jobs that are applicable to ICM 11+. It explains their purpose, the tasks they do, where to find them, as well as provides recommendations with regard to the job configuration. The document is intended to support administrative staff during the installation and configuration of Intershop Commerce Management 11.0 and later versions. This also applies for multi-data center environments.

Note

In general, Intershop recommends to enable only those jobs that are required for the proper operation of an Intershop Commerce Management system.

| Property | Description |
|---|---|
Default State | The job state after a DBPrepare. |
IsSiteSpecific | [ True | False | Unknown ] indicator for data modification within affected tables:
|
Product Version | The initial Intershop Commerce Management version the job was created. |
Product To Version | The last Intershop Commerce Management version for which the job applies. |
Job Dependencies | The dependencies to other jobs, respectively batch processes. |

SQL Helper to detect current job information from database:

col Domain format a50 col Name format a70 col DefaultState format a15 select dn(domainid) as "Domain" ,name as "Name" ,decode(enabledflag, 0, 'Disabled', 1, 'Enabled') as "DefaultState" from jobconfiguration order by 1,2;

| Title | Domain | Default State | Description | Product Version | Product To Version | Page Type | |||||||||||||||
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|

root

Enabled

Analyzes the database schema to optimize the database query performance. Disabling the Oracle `GATHER_STATS_JOB`

entirely is not recommended because it also gathers dictionary stats (*SYS/SYSTEM* schemas). Therefore changing the value of `AUTOSTATS_TARGET`

to `ORACLE`

instead of `AUTO`

using `dbms_stats.set_param('AUTOSTATS_TARGET', 'ORACLE')`

is recommended.

The following file can be used to adjust the settings: *IS_SHARE/system/config/cluster/database.properties.*

6.1

root

Disabled

Exports and cleans up audit data. The parameter "archive-and-delete-audit-entries-older-than-days" is mandatory and defines the limit in days. If audit items in the database are older they will be exported and removed from the database. The audit items are exported into a sub-folder of the impex directory of the job unit. It can be influenced by the parameter "CustomExportFolder". If defined, the sub folder is "*export/$ CustomExportFolder*", else the export file will be placed in "

7.3

<Organization>-<Channel>

Disabled

Handling product mass data editing (batch editing) in the back office.

<Organization>-<Channel>

Disabled

Removes catalog channel assignments - product assignments, product and category links, label assignments, promotion assignments, etc.

7.4

<Organization>-<Channel>

Disabled

Removes catalog partner assignments - product assignments, product and category links, label assignments, promotion assignments, etc.

7.4

root

Enabled

Checks the consistence of the order table. This is needed only by the transactional-based pricing model. For other licensing models, this job is not needed.

7.0

11.0

root

Enabled

Checks and corrects process states. If a process is stuck, deadlocked, or otherwise unresponsive and has not set its state accordingly, this job corrects it.

7.10.38.26

7.10.40.2

11.2.0

root

Enabled

Checks and deletes expired session data.

7.0

root

Enabled

Removes expired pagecache database entries, old processes, expired instance resources.

Since IS 7.4.0.0 it also removes expired batch cache clear containers and sync message responses .

7.0

SLDSystem

Disabled

7.10

RefSnippet

SLDSystem

Enabled

Removes all invalid (obsolete) Customer - Account Manager assignments. Such assignments with UUIDs pointing to no CustomerPO record might exist if customers have been deleted.

RefSnippet

root

Enabled

This job deletes outdated cXML Punchout sessions whose baskets are in status invalid or expired or are already removed. For baskets that are successfully transferred back to the procurement system the cXML Punchout sessions are immediately removed. This job cleans up only orphaned items.

There is no configuration of this job.

7.10.35

RefSnippet

SLDSystem

Disabled

The job provides an extension point to plug in search engine-specific cleanup that might be necessary to completely rebuild search indexes. It executes the *ProcessSearchIndexes-Cleanup* extension point in an enterprise repository context via *CleanupSearchIndexes* pipeline. Repeated execution in all enterprise contexts can be abandoned by returning status *Completed* as a string value into the pipeline dictionary.

Note

The pipeline does not delete the ICM-specific index configuration (e.g. the *ISH-Config.xml* in the shared file system) However, it should be executed with care and not in a live system context as no built indexes will be available after completion of this job.

7.10.27

RefSnippet

root

Enabled (since 7.10.35)

This job deletes batch process jobs based on a list of names and a specified minimum last execution time. It processes job configurations with a *PipelineName* set to *ProcessBatchJob*.

The Job can be configured by using the following job configuration attributes:

| Attribute | Description | |
|---|---|---|
| ExecutionAgeDays | The number of days since the last execution of the batch job | required |
| JobDomainName | A domain name that should be processed. This is not set by default, so that all domains are processed. | optional |
| JobNames | Optional comma-separated list of names that should be processed. This is not set by default, so all batch process jobs except | optional |
| BatchSize | The Number of batch processes that are cleaned during a single run | required |

7.10.32

RefSnippet

root

Enabled

Remove all entries in table 'DeletedUser' which are older than the configured number of days.

7.10.38.33

7.10.41.2

12.1.0

root

Enabled (since 7.10.35)

When many jobs are executed, the job results (processes) grow over time and need to be removed.

This job deletes all obsolete import/export jobs by name and minimum last execution time.

7.10

<Organization>

Disabled

Removes manufacturer aliases names, which are not assigned to any products.

7.0

root

Enabled

Check and remove obsolete TrackEvents

root

Disabled

Compiles all templates that are out of date.

7.0

SLDSystem

Enabled

This job sends out e-mails informing the account manager about soon expiring contracts.

The job logic checks a channel specific property to disable the notification email.

7.6

root / <Organization>

Disabled

Triggers order deletion with all according references.

By default it deletes orders where the `toBeDeleted`

flag is set to `true`

and with a status other than PENDING, MANUAL_INTERVENTION_NEEDED or EXPORTFAILED.

The status selection can be overwritten by defining the attribute `ExcludedStatuses`

(data type: String), with comma separated values (e.g., `ExcludedStatuses=NEW,EXPORTFAILED`

). If set to `NONE`

no statuses are excluded.

It is also possible to define the maximum number of orders that are to be deleted during a run (default 10,000). Larger values are not recommended due to possible database problems/locks. The value can be overwritten by the attribute `MaxNumberOfOrders`

(data type: Integer).

7.9

root

Enabled

Triggers domain deletion cleanup.

7.4

root

Enabled

Triggers deleted product cleanup

root

Enabled

Triggers deleted user cleanup.

SLDSystem

Enabled

Disables back office users that have not logged in for a longer time. E-mails are sent before they are actually disabled.

7.0

Disabled

7.7

RefSnippet

Disabled

7.7

RefSnippet

root

Disabled

This exports everything found by the ConfigurationMgr, either per domain or globally, to the defined file.

SLDSystem

Disabled

7.7

RefSnippet

SLDSystem

Enabled

This job cleans up the history from old baskets. A basket stays only for a defined time in the history. As soon as the state changes from `BASKET_EXPIRED`

to `BASKET_INVALID`

, it is no longer part of the history.

7.3

SLDSystem

Disabled

Invalidates the page caches of the sites with the names given in the attribute 'Sites' (comma separated).

7.0

SLDSystem

Enabled

This job brings the journal up-to-date (relevant to the specified lifetime). This means that expired journal entries are removed. The lifetime of the entries is managed with the domain preference `JournalLifetime`

.

root

Disabled

Sends unsent emails.

SLDSystem

Enabled

This job moves outdated time-based baskets to the basket history. A basket becomes historic, when the state changes to `BASKET_EXPIRED`

and the history-date is set. Empty baskets are not historicized, but removed directly.

7.3

root

Enabled

Optimize all Text Indexes. This job calls the stored procedure configured in property

'intershop.database.optimizeAllTextIndexes.Procedure', which is responsible to

optimize all text indexes of the entire database schema to maintain text indexes.

7.3

<Organization>-<Channel>

Disabled

Removes all payment detail information (credit card, bank account numbers, etc.) from orders older than a given number of days.

7.0

<Organization>-<Channel>

Disabled

Syndicating products to target: StandardDataFeed

13

root

Enabled

Removes outdated full site preview links.

7.1

<Organization>-<Channel>

Enabled

Fills the table ACTIVEPROMOPRODUCTS in order to prepare the date for the ProductPromotionDataProvider.

root

Enabled

Processes cache clear for cache clear key batch containers with a desired cache clear date.

7.0

<Organization>-<Channel>

Disabled

Governs the export, import validation and import available from the Catalogs Import & Export page in the back office. Each created job corresponds to an export, import validation or import process seen in the status section of the Catalog Import & Export page.

SLDSystem

Disabled

12.0

RefSnippet

SLDSystem

Disabled

7.10.27

7.10.*

RefSnippet

SLDSystem

Disabled

This job executes the process chain stored in *sites/SLDSystem/process_chains/ProcessChain.RebuildIndexesProductAssignments.xml.*

This process chain executes a sequence of the [Rebuild Search Indexes](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1774839087/Job+-+Rebuild+Search+Indexes) Job, the [Update Product Assignments (SLDSystem)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/47920382215/Job+-+Update+Product+Assignments+SLDSystem) Job and calls the *MaintainSearchIndexes* pipeline to rebuild online product search indexes.

12.0

RefSnippet

SLDSystem

Disabled

This job executes the process chain stored in *share/system/config/domains/SLDSystem/ProcessChain.RebuildIndexesProductAssignments.xml.*

This process chain executes a sequence of the [Rebuild Search Indexes](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1774839087/Job+-+Rebuild+Search+Indexes) Job, the [Update Product Assignments (SLDSystem)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/47920382215/Job+-+Update+Product+Assignments+SLDSystem) Job and calls the *MaintainSearchIndexes* pipeline to rebuild online product search indexes.

7.10.27

7.10.*

RefSnippet

<Organization>-<Channel>

Disabled

Governs the export, import validation, and import available from the Marketing Import & Export page in the back office. Each created job corresponds to an export, import validation, or import process visible in the status section of the Marketing Import & Export page.

7.0

RefSnippet

<Organization>-<Channel>

Enabled

Triggers a regular automatic price lists import.

<Organization>-<Channel>

Enabled

This job processes product price change events to update cached product prices.

There are attributes (in attributes tab) that determine the processing of price change events:

<Organization>-<Channel>

Enabled

Sets promotions (unavailable) depending on the availability of the assigned products.

SLDSystem

Enabled

This job evaluates alerts of products (e.g. end-of-life status reached) and sends notification emails.

7.0

<Organization>-<Channel>

Enabled

Removes price list prices older than the configured number of days.

SLDSystem

Enabled

7.9

RefSnippet

SLDSystem

Disabled

Rebuilds all search indexes by removing all indexed data first.

Restriction

Search indexes are rebuilt only for domains that are in the "Live" status. All others remain untouched.

7.2

SLDSystem

Enabled

This job recalculates the sales target actual amount for all contracts. This is useful in case the order status was changed to CANCELLED. It should be run after the order status import.

7.10.22

root

Disabled

This job triggers the generation of orders for all recurring orders (for all channels).

If the job runs every day in the morning at 09.00 AM, all orders that are due or overdue on that date will be generated.

If a large number of recurring orders are expected and many orders are generated each time the job runs, the maximum number of orders can optionally be specified to ensure that the system is not overloaded (define the `OrdersToBeProcessedMaxCount`

integer attribute in the job attributes). If the number is specified, the job is aborted when the limit of orders is reached. If the job is then executed again at a later time, it will continue from that point.

12.1

RefSnippet

root

Disabled

Re-encrypts data using the currently active encryption config.

This is used for encryption key management. Whenever a new default encryption key has been set, this pipeline (which calls into hooks for all affected cartridges) is called to re-encrypt all values. This is especially relevant for payment instrument data.

7.0

SLDSystem

Enabled

Updates the catalog filters of all organizations. The job also purges filters marked as deleted.

SLDSystem

Disabled

This job starts the predefined replication process with given identifier. The replication process is defined and configured in *IS_SHARE/system/config/cluster/replication.xml*

SLDSystem

Enabled

This job removes all baskets with the status `BASKET_INVALID`

that have exceeded the expiration date from the database. All service and product line items will be removed too.

7.3

SLDSystem

Enabled

Note

Since Intershop 7.10.31.0, the default state is *enabled.* The default state for for previous versions is *disabled*.

Removes all file resource entries in the impex unit file structure (*share/sites/<site>/units/<unit>/impex*) for which the corresponding files in the file system have been removed.

7.0

SLDSystem

Enabled

This job removes the customer price list assignment when a contract expires. It sets the contract status to expired.

7.6

SLDSystem

Enabled

This job starts scheduled replication processes.

SLDSystem

Enabled

This job determines all replication tasks of the system with state PENDING and updates the state to WAITING if current time reached or exceeds the replication tasks' pre-defined start time. This is necessary because only tasks with state WAITING can be assigned to replication processes.

root

Disabled

Export ... all, see the jobs:

REPORT_AllCatalog

REPORT_AllProducts

REPORT_AppServerLogs

REPORT_DomainList

REPORT_InstallationInformationLocal_*

REPORT_InstallationInformationShare

REPORT_LogsLocal_*

REPORT_OrderVolumeDaily

REPORT_OrderVolumeMonthly

REPORT_PropertyFilesLocal_*

REPORT_PropertyFilesShare

REPORT_ReportConfig

REPORT_SoldProductsDaily

REPORT_SoldProductsMonthly

REPORT_WALogs

REPORT_WAStatistics

root

Disabled

Transfers the reporting repository to the Customer Information Center.

root

Disabled

`fixed`

.7.9

RefSnippet

root

Disabled

7.10

RefSnippet

root

Disabled

`monthly`

.7.9

RefSnippet

root

Disabled

`quarterly`

.7.9

RefSnippet

root

Disabled

`weekly`

.7.9

RefSnippet

root

Disabled

7.10

RefSnippet

root

Disabled

Resets half-yearly budgets spent of all customer users of the system.

7.9

RefSnippet

root

Disabled

Resets monthly budgets spent of all customer users of the system.

7.9

RefSnippet

root

Disabled

Resets quarterly budgets spent of all customer users of the system.

7.9

RefSnippet

root

Disabled

Reset Service MBean Statistic data.

7.0

root

Disabled

Resets weekly budgets spent of all customer users of the system.

7.9

RefSnippet

root

Disabled

Resets yearly budgets spent of all customer users of the system.

7.9

RefSnippet

SLDSystem

Disabled

Performs a full revalidation of all CMS objects

7.3

SMC

Disabled

Forces the execution of the RefreshCache pipelet. This invalidates the whole ORM cache.

7.0

SMC

Disabled

Runs the Java garbage collector for the VM where this job is executed. This can be useful to find memory leaks faster.

7.0

root

Enabled

This job is required to support the execution of replication processes on the Live JobServer.

To do this, it is necessary to synchronize the live and edit staging processes by copying replication/staging information from the edit system to the live system and to create job configurations on the live system. Created job configurations are configured to be scheduled on the JobServer.

12.0.0

RefSnippet

<Organization>-<Channel>

Disabled

SearchIndexGeneration[Index-ID]

Rebuild or update of the search index 'Index-ID' triggered as batch job from the back-office.

The index-ID in the job name is optional. The used index ID is given in the job configuration attribute SearchIndexID.

SLDSystem

Disabled

Checks for abandoned baskets and forces the e-mail marketing provider to send out messages to the basket owners.

This job does not work with the standard newsletter subscription service described in [Concept - E-Mail Marketing / Newsletter Subscription,](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1895605054/Concept+-+E-Mail+Marketing+Newsletter+Subscription) because the standard does not implement the *Send Abandoned Basket Messages* feature. It only works if there is a custom e-mail marketing service which also supports abandoned basket messages (See [Cookbook - E-Mail Marketing / Newsletter Subscription](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48522691261/Cookbook+-+E-Mail+Marketing+Newsletter+Subscription)).

7.0

SLDSystem

Disabled

This job synchronizes all existing content instances with the current content model:

SLDSystem

Enabled

This job synchronizes products of repositories (that are set for synchronization) using product mapping rules.

13

root

Enabled

Synchronize all text indexes. This job calls the stored procedure configured in property

'intershop.database.synchronizeAllTextIndexes.Procedure', which is responsible for

synchronizing all text indexes of the entire database schema to maintain text indexes.

7.3

root

Enabled

Synchronizes the live with the editing staging process.

SLDSystem

Enabled

Updates the database snapshot views that contain consolidated product counts per domain and classification category.

SLDSystem

Enabled

This job updates product assignments (explicit & implicit product binding) for all catalogs.

New attribute (since 7.9)

The `SetDefaultCategory`

attribute determines whether a new added category will be set as default.

If the attribute is set to `yes`

, a new category will be set as default. If the value is `no`

or the attribute is missing, the previous behavior is kept. Once a default category is set, no new category will change the preceding one.

Changed behavior (since 7.10)

It uses the default applications default locale to process the non-localized dynamic category assignment search queries.

Changed behavior (since 7.10.38.15 and 11.0.8)

It only updates product assignments within online domains.

7.10

SLDSystem

Enabled

Updates the OnlineFlag of products depending on their ValidFrom, ValidTo and AvailabilityStatus attributes.

SLDSystem

Disabled

Gets all rule based sharing groups and updates the product assignments based on the update rules.

SLDSystem

Disabled

Updates all search indexes for objects that have been changed after the `LastIndexStartTime`

of the `SearchIndexes`

.

Restriction

Search indexes are updated only for domains that are in the "Live" status. All others remain untouched.

SLDSystem

Disabled

Queries and updates the shop statistics for all channels and organizations. The overview pages in the Commerce Management are based on these statistics.

New attribute (since 11.10.1)

root

Enabled

Calculate A/B test statistics based on generated A/B test events for every A/B test group.

SMC

Disabled

Writes the actual performance reports into the log directory. The boolean attribute "doResetSensors" controls, whether the sensors are reset after report creation. Default is "true".

7.0

root

Disabled

Writes the reports of the performance sensors to *IS_SHARE/system/log/monitor*. The boolean attribute "doResetSensors" controls, whether the sensors are reset after report creation. Default is "true".

7.0

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.