---
id: '2292646a979fea4607f8691e9efb4587'
title: 'What''s New'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/455C70'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:29:49.654227+00:00'
---
The Localization Agent is an AI agent that **accurately translates product content into 25+ languages**. It interprets plain-language requests for translations of existing products and catalogs, and **autonomously adds the new translations into store locales**. It can handle batch processing of up to 1000 translations per request, at a **maximum rate of roughly 30,000 translations per day**, giving e-commerce teams **more speed in rolling out to new markets, at much lower cost**.

The agent also **stores and uses preferred industry and brand terminologies**, and takes care of the time-consuming, manual work of cross checking translations for completeness.

Customers need to be on Intershop version ICM 13 or higher to use the Localization Agent. It is available through the Copilot for Merchants interface.

The Business Intelligence Agent gives e-commerce managers instant access to information about their daily business, such as revenue, category and product performance, and sales forecasts, tailored to their requests.

**The agent turns requests in natural language into SQL queries, pulling available commerce data from the BI Data Hub **and translating into a response that fits the user's question. It can answer directly, or **generate polished visual charts and dashboards** in seconds.

Customers need to be on Intershop version ICM 7.10 or higher to use the Business Intelligence Agent, and integrate the [BI Data Hub](https://www.intershop.com/en/business-intelligence) solution. Access the Business Intelligence Agent through the Copilot for Merchants interface.

The Intershop Knowledge Agent is an **expert guide and on-demand support for business users** of the Intershop Commerce Platform. Accessing the entire Intershop Knowledge Base, it provides clear and understandable answers to business-user questions. It helps users navigate the complexity of the platform, configure and use functionalities faster, and **provides instant answers to basic support questions**.

The Knowledge Agent is free for Intershop customers and available through the Copilot for Merchants interface.

This release, the Copilot for Buyers is getting more context about buyers. It can now use contextual information like order history, account-specific preferences, roles, and past interactions to make even better product recommendations, netting merchants bigger basket sizes, faster reordering and happier repeat customers.

**Deeper use of customer context for product search**. The copilot interprets user intent expressed in natural language to automatically identify relevant filter criteria—such as technical attributes, compatibility requirements, or usage context—and applies them to the product search. Filtered results are presented directly within the Progressive Web App (PWA) storefront for immediate review and action.

**Access to order history. **The copilot can look up what a buyer has purchased in the past and use this information to suggest more relevant products – especially useful for simplifying the reorder process. Buyers can specify a time frame to filter relevant orders.

**References EANs and other external product IDs to recommend substitutions.** Buyers can search with an external product identifier, like an EAN. If the product is not available in shop, the buyer will get suggestions for equivalent or compatible alternatives that are available.

**Transparent explanations for product recommendations. **The copilot helps clear up misunderstandings before they turn into frustrations by giving buyers a clear view into why products were recommended – including which attributes and filters were applied based on the conversation.

The copilot is also now **more tightly connected to the PWA** storefront. Buyers can **fully navigate through the storefront** and their account and order pages by talking to the copilot. In addition to adding products to purchase, it can **now fully manage the cart**, adding and subtracting items, entire groups of products, or the whole cart. Especially for B2B buyers, it can also **create and manage order templates** for easier repeat purchases and replenishment.

The new Copilot for Buyers features can be used with ICM version 13 and higher and the most recent PWA version, 9.0.0. An update of Flowise Configuration to 1.0.0 is necessary and will be provided by the Intershop AI team.

The Copilot for Merchants is an AI assistant and the **new user interface for steering Intershop’s growing fleet of ready-to-use AI agents**. With it, e-commerce managers will be able to set complex tasks into motion, activating agents that autonomously take care of daily commerce tasks, like product content generation, localization, or creating BI reports.

The Copilot for Merchants is currently being **soft-launched with select customers and partners**. Contact us to [schedule a demo](https://www.intershop.com/en/request-demo).

A new connector is now available for PayPal Checkout. PayPal Checkout features global coverage in over 200+ markets, local payment methods, and built-in compliance management – leading to less maintenance stress for e-commerce teams.

What’s new:

**The** **new Pay Later* payment option** lets buyers pay later while merchants get paid upfront.

**Buyers complete their payment process in the same browser window**, in an overlay that appears in the storefront. No tab switching, no interruptions to the buying process.

**Add and configure the connector directly in Intershop Commerce Management**.

Existing users of PayPal will **need to switch to the new connector to access the new features**. Making the switch is simple: Just log in to PayPal from the ICM to connect, configure your preferred payment methods, and it is pre-built in the PWA and ready to use.

**Additional payment methods are planned for the next release**; the Intershop development team will only update this connector.

* See [PayPal Developer documentation](https://developer.paypal.com/docs/checkout/pay-later/gb/) for the latest availability of Pay Later features and benefits in your region(s).

Merchants using our personalization engine SPARQUE can now **send product recommendations to their PWA storefront with no code required**, making it **easier to show tailored product recommendations to buyers** and boosting basket sizes with less effort.

Users can craft their custom product recommendation strategy in SPARQUE, including personalization based on order data. **In the CMS, content editors can now choose SPARQUE-connected recommendation components** to use in the storefront, such as on product detail pages, category pages, basket and checkout. Buyers get recommendations tailored to their shopping behavior and context.

For new SPARQUE users, there are now **templates for basic recommendation strategies** they can test and tune over time.

Learn more about how to set up SPARQUE recommendations in [Guide - SPARQUE Recommendations](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/50064425104/Guide+-+SPARQUE+Recommendations).

Merchants need SPARQUE and the PWA as their storefront to use this feature.

Building on the Spring 2025 launch of the Design View visual editing interface for the PWA, **Content editors now have more power to personalize the storefront**. Editors can **assign content components to specific customer segments**, defining which buyers can see what content.

More incremental improvements to the UI of the Design View improve the overall experience and give more control to content editors. They can now **quickly adjust the visual hierarchy and flow of a page through drag-and-drop**, without re-creating or re-adding components. They can also more easily manage local and global visibility of content, and can **hide or publish individual components**, supporting content scheduling, testing, and campaign rollouts.

Read our [Content Management Center user manual](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/index.php/Home/iap/master/cmc_en) to find out how to use the new Design View features.

Staying up-to-date and on the most current Intershop version has never been easier. [ICM migration support](https://github.com/intershop/icm-migration-support/) is a Java-based toolkit that helps developers migrate up to the latest ICM version.

To support development teams and reduce manual effort, it also features **a set of ****AI instructions**** to prompt Github Copilot through the steps of migrating all cartridges from one version of the platform to the next**, following the same steps as the Java-based migration support toolkit. The instructions also include a prompt for the Copilot to **check if there are issues in the dependency structure and propose fixes** – in Agent mode, the Copilot can even use the document to perform fixes itself.

A [training course](https://public.academy.intershop.com/plus/catalog/courses/450) for how to use the new migration tools is available in the Intershop Online Academy.

A **new Customer Segment Management REST API** makes it easier to integrate customer segments with Intershop. A list of all valid customer segments can now be made available for use by back office applications. Also the **CMS Management REST API has been extended**, making it possible to apply customer segments to content components.

For the details on the new API, see [Reference - Customer Segments Management REST API 1.0.0 (Beta)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/50152865793/Reference+-+Customer+Segments+Management+REST+API+1.0.0+Beta).

Developers can **push their own changes to the ICM** (versions 7.10. and higher), IOM, and PWA to production **without filing a ticket**, effectively **cutting wait times for live deployments down to zero**.

Find out more about getting live deployment privileges, monitoring, and which guidelines apply, in [Guide - Self-Service Deployments for AKS-Based Systems](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/49925751395/Guide+-+Self-Service+Deployments+for+AKS-Based+Systems).

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.