---
id: '22d2ecf028659ca7d84839af1992caf0'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/302N63'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:37:10.081966+00:00'
---
To improve the performance and maintainability of the product Rest API, the ProductHandler got a new java-based implementation. Therefore, some customizations of the former pipeline-based implementation may not work anymore.

The following artifacts are (partially) not used anymore:

If there are any customizations related to these files, it is possible to still use the ProductHandlerImpl via the component framework. However, this is not recommend, because the ProductHandlerImpl is deprecated and will be removed in the near future.

The new implementation of the ProductHandler is called ProductSearchHandlerImpl. It will handle both search index and query based searches for products. Therefore, two new Interfaces were added:

They both are implemented by default with our query and search index based product search and bound via Google Guice. If customizations are existent in ProcessSearchREST or ProcessCatalogREST, own implementation of these interfaces are possible.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.