---
id: '22ec3276faa72292fcae9d57ccd204e3'
title: 'ISML Function'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2546K3'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:17.727422+00:00'
---
Webpages usually have links allowing a user to navigate from one page to another. A link in a *standard* webpage includes a URL pointing to another webpage.

If the user clicks on a link, the browser sends a request containing the URL to a server. In an Intershop 7 site, however, links do not reference other webpages. Instead, Intershop 7 links trigger pipelines which again can generate storefront webpages as a response.

The functions `url()`

and

are used in a template to dynamically generate a URL that is part of a link. Any reference in a storefront page needs to be generated by one of these function calls. Use the attribute action for generating that part of a URL that contains information about the storefront name, language/locale, currency, etc. The parameter attribute can be used to extend the URL with additional key-value pairs which can forward additional data to the called pipeline.[urlex()](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1775690011/ISML+Function+-+urlex)

The `url()`

function uses the protocol that triggered the pipeline. Therefore, if the pipeline was triggered via an HTTP request, the URL will use the HTTP protocol. If the pipeline was triggered via HTTPS, then that protocol will be used. By contrast, the

function allows you to arbitrarily specify a protocol, independently of the one used in the current pipeline request.[urlex()](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1775690011/ISML+Function+-+urlex)

url( <action - operation> ) url( <action - operation>,[<parameter - operation>] )

This example shows how to build a link in a storefront page to call a pipeline.

<a href = "#url(action('ViewBasketHistory-Start'))#"> ... link text to be displayed ... </a>

`action`

This parameter is required.

`action - operation`


Result of an

function call.[action()](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1775687382/ISML+Function+-+action)

`parameter`

This parameter is optional.

`parameter - operation`


Result of a

function call. The [parameter()](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1775689514/ISML+Function+-+parameter)`parameter()`

function may be included as often as needed in this function call.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.