---
id: '23c80ef20b369f74913c82cd80136510'
title: 'Wireframes'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/45A577'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:29:37.158241+00:00'
---
The wireframes provide interaction designs for storefront pages on the Progressive Web App demo store, focusing on the PayPal Complete Payments functionality, illustrating elements and interactions.

|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|
2.1.0 | 12.4.0+ | 9.0.0+ | |
3.0.0 | 12.6.1+ | 10.0.0+ |

Open the prototype in your browser by clicking the link in the Wireframes section. You can then navigate to other pages directly via the sitemap.

There are features on some pages which are interactive. Use the icon next to the Axure logo and select the option *Show Hotspots*.

The design is responsive across all screen sizes. The breakpoints are:

Phone (xs): less than 768px

Tablet (sm): 768px and up

Medium Desktop (md): 992px and up

Large Desktop (lg): 1200px and up

To see the different layouts, you can resize your browser, or you can use the drop-down menu to switch between the views.

The prototype is described with page notes and widget notes. Use the icon to show the documentation.

See the [Axure documentation](https://docs.axure.com/axure-rp/reference/prototype-player/) for more information on how to interact with the prototype.

We value your feedback!

Feel free to send your thoughts via e-mail to: [UserExperience2@intershop.de](mailto:UserExperience2@intershop.de).

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.