---
id: '23e53330344e43f00b39d3e2a5f1c5c0'
title: 'Managing Personal Data Requests'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3253P2'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:33.115467+00:00'
---
# Managing Personal Data Requests

Note:

The tasks described in this section are performed in the context of a sales channel.

Intershop Commerce Management allows to handle Personal Data Requests. This includes deleting customer data as well as exporting and downloading customer data. For the corresponding concept, see [Personal Data Requests](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/customer_management/concept_personal_data_requests.html).

Note:

Data requests should only be handled by trained personnel. To use this feature, the permission

*Customer Manager*is required. A complete data request must also include all stored data from 3rd party systems. Intershop recommends to document all processes related to export and deletion of personal data.## Searching for Personal Data Requests

- Select your sales channel from the context selection box.
-
Select Customers | Personal Data Requests.
This displays a list of all personal data requests for this channel.
-
Enter the Customer Name or Request ID in the search field.
To perform a more detailed search including Request Status and Request Type, switch to the Advanced Search. For example, you can search for a personal data request with the status
*in progress*. -
Click Find.
The results are displayed in the list view.

## Trigger Personal Data Requests Manually

Note:

If a customer creates a data request via MyAccount | Profile Settings | Privacy and Personal Data in the storefront, the system automatically triggers the process in Intershop Commerce Management. If the request is made via telephone or contact form, the process must be triggered manually, see

[Personal Data Requests](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/customer_management/concept_personal_data_requests.html)for details.To manually trigger a new personal data request:

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Customers | Personal Data Request.
A table that shows all personal data requests from customers appears.
-
Click New.
The New Personal Data Request dialog opens.
-
Choose a Request Type (Request Data or Delete Data) and enter e-mail, login or customer ID.
You may also use the Select button (...) to select a customer.
-
Click Apply.
A success message appears. The customer receives an e-mail to confirm the request. The confirmation link is valid for 24 hours after sending the mail.

## Deleting Customer Data

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Customers | Personal Data Request.
A table that shows all personal data requests from customers appears.
-
Search for the request you want to process and click the Delete Customer Data icon in the Actions column.
This opens the Delete Customer Data dialog.
-
Click OK to confirm the deletion or Cancel to cancel the deletion.
A success message appears. You may set the status to
*completed (handled)*now. To do this, select the relevant request and click Set Status.

## Exporting and Downloading Customer Data

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Customers | Personal Data Request.
A table that shows all personal data requests from customers appears.
-
Search for the request you want to process and click the Export Data icon in the Actions column.
The Export Monitor opens.
-
Click Download Export File to receive the customer's personal data.
You may set the status to
*completed (handled)*now. To do this, select the relevant request and click Set Status.Note:The export file must be deleted after a defined period. This also applies if the file is made available via 3rd party systems.