---
id: '242dca8d406f676242a83a1600a233db'
title: 'Table of Contents'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/L31401'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:25.277114+00:00'
---
**Info**

The features listed here refer to ICM 13 compared to ICM 12. Features that are implemented after ICM 13.0.0 will be added gradually as well, so you will also find information about minor version features within ICM 13 here.

The Product and Catalog Management REST API has been enhanced to provide flexible access to large catalog datasets while optimizing data transfer efficiency.

Streamlined access to large catalog datasets:

Clients can request catalog datasets and specify which data to include in the response.

A paging mechanism helps reduce the number of datasets in each request, ensuring efficient data transfer.

These improvements allow clients to retrieve only the necessary information, reducing bandwidth usage and improving performance.

Simplified catalog management:

Clients can now remove entire catalogs, simplifying catalog maintenance tasks.

For details and the changelog, see the REST API specification [Reference - Product and Catalog Management REST API 1.5.0 (Beta)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/49796382740/Reference+-+Product+and+Catalog+Management+REST+API+1.5.0+Beta).

We have updated all third-party libraries in Intershop Commerce Management to strengthen security and address potential vulnerabilities. These updates ensure our system stays resilient and ready for seamless future enhancements.

For details, see [Guide - 13.0.0 - Migration Library Updates](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/49781178542/Guide+-+13.0.0+-+Migration+Library+Updates).

The new release features accelerated performance of the storefront REST APIs, delivering a 10% improvement in response times for average requests.


The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.