---
id: '24b0b1f9ac150d1f7ca9e9efc39c8d58'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/H28462'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:39:33.168646+00:00'
---
Intershop 7 (since IS 7.4 CI) is delivered with tools that can be used to build, assemble, upgrade, downgrade, deploy and undeploy software components.

The present document is intended as a quick start guide for consultants and developers for a quick project setup. The procedures described are based on *Intershop 7.9* in combination with *Intershop Gradle Tools 2.11*.

Note

The activities described in this document are intended to give a rough overview of the setup steps. The document helps to get a first impression about the functionalities of the Intershop platform and the "look and feel" when developing applications.

Be aware that this quick guide does neither describe the quickest solution for many developers, nor do the approaches mentioned here meet the requirements of a full-scale project setup.

To set up a development environment, please follow the [Cookbook - Setup CI Infrastructure](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822571078/Cookbook+-+Setup+CI+Infrastructure) guide instead, which focuses on creating a reusable infrastructure for multiple developers.

For more detailed information to a complete CI Infrastructure, please refer to [Cookbook - Setup CI Infrastructure](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822571078/Cookbook+-+Setup+CI+Infrastructure).

For more detailed information about deploying Intershop 7 instances, please refer to [Cookbook - Deployment Tools ICM 7.9](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1826510540/Cookbook+-+Deployment+Tools+ICM+7.9).

| Term | Description |
|---|---|
| Nexus | Sonatype Nexus - an artifact repository server |
| Gradle | A build automation tool that builds upon the concepts of Apache Ant and Apache Maven |

`JAVA_HOME`

pointing to this JDK installation.The present document does not mention any version control system. Nevertheless you should be aware of the advantages of version control systems.

The [Cookbook - Setup CI Infrastructure ](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822571078/Cookbook+-+Setup+CI+Infrastructure)outlines how to use Apache Subversion to achieve this.

A CI server is perhaps not absolutely necessary to perform the tasks for your setup. However, build automation, automated deployment and self-testing builds are essential for a continuous integration strategy.

The more detailed [Cookbook - Setup CI Infrastructure](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822571078/Cookbook+-+Setup+CI+Infrastructure) illustrates how to use Jenkins to achieve this.

This Quick Guide does not describe any user management neither for the artifact repository server nor for the version control system nor for a CI server.

Note

Make sure to apply restricted user credentials particularly when you intend to make one of the above mentioned systems or the repository server itself available via the internet.

Please refer to the documentation of the according system to get more information on how to do that.

Once Nexus is installed properly the repositories have to be configured:

Start Sonatype Nexus.

Access Nexus (<yournexusserver>:8081).

Log in as administrator (user: `admin`

password: `admin123`

).

Select *Repositories*.

Create and/or configure the following repositories:

| Repo Name | Repo ID | URL | Repo | Repo Policy | Deployment Policy | Usage |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| JCenter | jcenter | http://<hostname:port>/nexus/content/repositories/jcenter | proxy for https://jcenter.bintray.com/ | Bintrays public repository | ||
| Central | central | http://<hostname:port>/nexus/content/repositories/central | proxy for http://repo1.maven.org/maven2/ | Maven Central public repository | ||
| Intershop | ishrepo | http://<Hostname:Port>/nexus/content/repositories/ishrepo | proxy for https://repository.intershop.de/releases/ | Contains all released Intershop artifacts | ||
| Distributions | distributions | http://<hostname:port>/nexus/content/repositories/distributions | hosted | Release | Disable Redeploy | For project Gradle distribution |
| Releases | releases | http://<hostname:port>/nexus/content/repositories/releases | hosted | Release | Disable Redeploy | For corporate / project releases |
| Snapshots | snapshots | ttp://<hostname:port>/nexus/content/repositories/snapshots | hosted | Snapshot | Allow Redeploy | For all artifacts from snapshot builds |

For some repository server software it is recommended to store Maven and Ivy artifacts in different repositories. More information about this special kind of configuration can be found in the [Cookbook - Setup CI Infrastructure](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822571078/Cookbook+-+Setup+CI+Infrastructure).

Create a repository group.

| Name | ID | Repo Type | Repository Names |
|---|---|---|---|
| Components | components | group | Intershop, Releases, JCenter, Central |

Note

The order of the assigned repositories is very important.

Note

Possible pitfall, when attempting to access files via this proxy repository.

If the following message appears:`404 - Automatic routing filter rejected remote request for path `

`/com/intershop/build/infrastructure/intershop-ci-setup-bootstrap/<version>`

`/intershop-ci-setup-bootstrap-<version>`

`.zip`

from M2Repository(id=ishrepo)

Apply the following workaround.

Switch to the tab *Routing* and make sure *Discovery* is *unchecked*.

Make sure that the Intershop proxy repository (`ishrepo`

) is configured with valid authentication credentials (username; password).

Get the credentials for your ishrepo on the Intershop Customer Support site.

Note

Plan the distribution of the license file, e.g., create a folder:

| Linux | `/opt/intershop/license` |
|---|---|
| Windows | ```
C:\intershop\license
``` |

The Deployment User should have read-access to this location.

Download the latest version of the bootstrap package for the CI setup via your browser.

Note

It is also possible to create an own clone of the Git repository, see [https://github.com/IntershopCommunicationsAG/intershop-cisetup-template.git](https://github.com/IntershopCommunicationsAG/intershop-cisetup-template.git).

Output directory: Specify a target directory for the sources to be generated in the property `setupDirectory`

.

directories { /** * Base directory for all generated sources. **/ //TODO: Provide an absolute path, e.g., '/home/developer/intershop-ci/source' on Linux resp.'C:/developer/intershop-ci' on Windows setupDirectory = '<ProjectHome>'

Corporate names: Specify names that identify your company/department.

repository { /** * Technical enterprise or corporate name. * This is used for group/organization of generated artifacts in * the artifact repository. */ //TODO: Provide a reverse domain name, e.g. 'com.corporate' corporateName = '<com.YourCompany>'

Repository base URL: Specify the repository base URL of your artifact repository server in the property `repoBaseURL`

.

repository { ... /** * Base URL for all repositories on the repository server. */ //TODO: Provide URL (e.g. http://nexus:8081/nexus/content) repoBaseURL = 'http://<NEXUS>:8081/nexus/content'

Project names: Specify names that identify your project.

intershopProject { /** * Technical name of the project. This is also used for the name of the multi project, * that contains all components (cartridges) and the assembly build. **/ //TODO: Provide a name using only letters, numbers and underscores (no spaces or other special characters), e.g. 'corporateshop' projectName = '<ProjectName>'

Ensure you have installed a valid JDK and set `Java_Home`

correctly.

You may encounter a build failure like this:

`Execution failed for task ':app_sf_foobar:compileJava'.`


`> Could not find tools.jar`


In that case you most likely ran the build process with a JRE only, but compiling Java requires a JDK. Be sure to execute Gradle with the proper Java by pointing the environment variable `JAVA_HOME`

to the location of your desired JDK installation.

You may refer to [How to Set Java Home](http://www.wikihow.com/Set-Java-Home), if you do not know how to achieve this.

Execute:

gradlew intershopCISetupAll

./gradlew intershopCISetupAll

This initially creates all directories and files needed for your setup.

Before proceeding any further, Intershop strongly recommends to store all artifacts into a Version Control System.

Even the bootstrap may be subject to change. This means that you need to back up the artifacts created by the bootstrap in order to be able to exactly re-create the initial CI environment of your project.

This section only provides shortened working steps. For more detailed information please refer to the recipe [Setup CI Build for Corporate Artifacts](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822571078/Cookbook+-+Setup+CI+Infrastructure#Cookbook-SetupCIInfrastructure-CorporateArtifacts) in the [Cookbook - Setup CI Infrastructure](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822571078/Cookbook+-+Setup+CI+Infrastructure).

Open a command line and execute:

gradlew publish

./gradlew publish

Go to * <ProjectHome>/projects/oracleDriver/3rd_oracle.*

Open a command line and execute:

gradlew publish -PrepoUserName=<deployment user> -PrepoUserPasswd=<deployment user password> -PreleaseURL=<URL for release publishing>

./gradlew publish -PrepoUserName=<deployment user> -PrepoUserPasswd=<deployment user password> -PreleaseURL=<URL for release publishing>

The standard assemblies of the Intershop Commerce Management Suite do not provide any storefront functionalities and/or content. Nevertheless Intershop provides a full grown Responsive Starter Store including the whole view layer with a responsive content model and demo content. This section describes how to integrate the source cartridges into your environment. This way the Responsive Starter Store is the perfect starting point for your development.

On Windows certain tools have trouble dealing with path names longer than 255 characters. When in doubt, please use 7-Zip 15.12 to uncompress the source packages.

Note

**Newer versions of the responsive starter store**

Find the Responsive Starter Store version and download links for a corresponding Intershop Commerce Management version in the [Reference - CI Dependencies of Intershop Commerce Management](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1812647144/Reference+-+CI+Dependencies+of+Intershop+Commerce+Management).

As Deployment User: Download the latest version of the Responsive Starter Store component set `a_responsive`

.

http://<your-reposerver:port>/nexus/content/repositories/ishrepo/com.intershop.public.source/a_responsive/<version>/zips/a_responsive-zip-src-<version>.zip

Within the folder *<ProjectHome>/projects/ <ProjektName> *

Adapt the following files within your project directory:

// define root project name - rootProject.name = 'a_responsive' + rootProject.name = '<ProjectName>'

Replace the `com.intershop.responsive`

group with your projects group in the following file:

description 'Components Responsive Starter Store Applications' - group = 'com.intershop.responsive' + group = '<Projects Group>' subprojects { - group = 'com.intershop.responsive' + group = '<Projects Group>'

Physically** **remove not needed sub projects.

| Assembly Type | Storefront Cartridges | Demo/Init Cartridges | Assembly |
|---|---|---|---|
| B2C | `app_sf_responsive` `app_sf_responsive_cm` `app_sf_responsive_b2c` `app_sf_responsive_smb` `as_responsive` | `demo_responsive` `demo_responsive_catalog` `demo_responsive_content` `demo_responsive_search` `demo_responsive_ocst` | inspired-b2c |
| B2X | B2C Storefront Cartridges +```
app_sf_responsive_b2b
``` `app_sf_responsive_costcenter` `as_responsive_b2b` | B2C Demo/Init Cartridges +`demo_responsive_b2b` | inspired-b2x |

The table gives an overview of the needed cartridges for the different assembly types.

(optional) Rename the folder of the assembly sub project `'inspired-b2x'`

or `'inspired_b2c'`

to your preferred name, e.g., *assembly_corporateshop*. This name is used for the deployment of the project.

Delete the other assembly sub project folder, which is no longer needed.

Adapt build configuration for the used assembly.

If a B2C assembly will be created:

- def assemblyProjects = [ project(':inspired-b2c'), project(':inspired-b2x') ] + def assemblyProjects = [ project(':inspired-b2c') ]

If a B2X assembly will be created:

- def assemblyProjects = [ project(':inspired-b2c'), project(':inspired-b2x') ] + def assemblyProjects = [ project(':inspired-b2x') ]

If you've renamed your assembly sub project then use the name instead

- def assemblyProjects = [ project(':inspired-b2c'), project(':inspired-b2x') ] + def assemblyProjects = [ project(':<YourAssemblyName>') ]

Execute the following command, in order to create the Deployment Configuration:

gradlew

./gradlew

Note

The first call of `gradelw`

in the project will generate a sample file for the deployment configuration ('*<PROJECT><assembly name>/target/samples/environment.properties.sample*'). But this will only happen if:

`<project name>BuildEnvironmentProperties`

is specified or the file, specified for this property, does not exist.`buildEnvironmentProperties`

is specified or the file, specified for this property, does not exist.If no sample file is generated please check the location of the assembly project, the environment settings and the file *gradle.properties* in your *GRADLE_USER_HOME* for some of this configuration properties.

For more detailed information please refer to the recipe [Set Up Project Based on the Responsive Starter Store](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822571078/Cookbook+-+Setup+CI+Infrastructure#Cookbook-SetupCIInfrastructure-ResponsiveStarterStore) in the [Cookbook - Setup CI Infrastructure](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822571078/Cookbook+-+Setup+CI+Infrastructure).

These steps deploy the server from the current assembly build process.

Adapt the *environment.properties* according to your OS, and define the database connection parameters, used ports and interfaces.

Note

Using Linux OS make sure you *configure separate multicast ports* for each messaging channel.

Some older Linux distributions have an issue with multicast configurations on the same port and different IPs.

As Deployment User: Open a command line from *<ProjectHome>/projects/ <ProjektName> /* and execute:

gradle_environment.bat

./gradle_environment.sh

Build and deploy.

gradlew deployServer

sh ./gradlew deployServer

As administrator / with root privileges open a command line and execute:

dbsetup.bat

./dbsetup.sh

More information about the automated, script-based setup can be found at the following link:

As Deployment User: Open a command line from *<ProjectHome>/projects/ <ProjektName> / *and execute:

gradlew dbinit

./gradlew dbinit

As administrator/with root privileges: Open a command line from *<ProjectHome>/projects/ <ProjektName>*

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ To finish the deployment please execute the following scripts as administrator / with root privileges: /folder/postInstall/installServices.sh ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Start the application server.

Note

Once source code is added via a component or component set to the assembly, the build processes have to be executed.

Refer to [Cookbook - Gradle Build Tools](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1783302828/Cookbook+-+Gradle+Build+Tools) for more detailed information on how to do this.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.