---
id: '24c4b6d45b8de598938363a78ac7deaa'
title: 'Overview'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/27845T'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:36:01.339718+00:00'
---
The present page serves as an overview for the topic. All available documents for the topic can be found here.

Term | Description |
|---|---|
Enfinity Suite 6 | A set of pre-defined business applications to serve sales, procurement and content management processes, predecessor product of Intershop 7 |
Intershop 7 | A set of pre-defined business applications to serve sales and content management processes, successor product of Enfinity Suite 6, predecessor of Intershop Commerce Management |
Intershop Markup Language | The Intershop Markup Language (ISML) is a template language for rendering dynamic pages, in particular dynamic web pages. ISML templates are translated by an ISML compiler into JSP templates. ISML provides means to retrieve data from the pipeline dictionary, to trigger the execution of pipelines, and to embed ISML templates inside other ISML templates. |

In Enfinity Suite 6/Intershop 7/Intershop Commerce Management development, pipelets are small, re-usable units of Java code (one type of pipeline building blocks) that perform discrete business functions.

Depending on the context, "pipeline" may refer to different concepts:

Developer

In Enfinity Suite 6/Intershop 7/Intershop Commerce Management development, it refers to the fundamental architecture that describes all business workflows. Pipelines connect pipelets to model complex business processes, and call appropriate ISML templates to turn the results of a business process into a response that is sent back to the user client.

Sales

In the sales context, it describes the individual steps salespeople take in the sales process: from the initial contact with a potential customer ("prospect"), to qualifying that prospect into a "lead", and further validating that lead into a "sales opportunity" followed through stages like meeting and proposal until the "close".

The documents listed below refer to the developer context.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.