---
id: '25d016c2c446113fb395ab4d221b0ed3'
title: 'Public Release Note'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/Y31082'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:26.456397+00:00'
---
Welcome to the Playground Environment for Developers. This solution provides you access to a realistic development environment for the Intershop Commerce Platform.

Latest releases of Intershop Commerce Management, Intershop Progressive Web App and Intershop Order Management are available.

To get access, please contact your partner manager.

Once you have access, [Guide - Intershop Commerce Platform Development](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48020128867/Guide+-+Intershop+Commerce+Platform+Development) will guide you through the process.

Apart from that, our standard documentation applies. To get started, refer to [Overview - Intershop Commerce Platform DevOps](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1889741283/Overview+-+Intershop+Commerce+Platform+DevOps).

One Azure DevOps organization and project dedicated for your organization

Access to Intershop Commerce Platform artifacts (ICM 11+, PWA, IOM) within Azure DevOps ACR for local development

Azure Git repository, build pipelines, and build VMs to commit to a central repository

Automated deployment to INT environment

Basic monitoring included

Only the most recent Intershop Commerce Platform releases are available

Monitoring Ingest limited to 100GB per month

Staging not supported

This environment is only used to understand the Intershop Commerce Platform and its development processes. Any other use is not permitted.

Intershop Commerce Platform Standard SLAs do not apply.

: Release of the initial version.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.