---
id: '271f6ec4253524146d074c2810c6c382'
title: 'Deleting User and Domain References'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3B1180'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:24.062906+00:00'
---
When a domain is marked for deletion, the job [DeleteDomainReferences](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1788152503) deletes all references to that domain. Similarly, if a user is marked for deletion, the job [DeleteUserReferences](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1751056916) deletes all references to that user. Currently, the configured `DomainDeletionPipeline`

or the corresponding `UserDeletionPipeline`

are called in each cartridge. These pipeline calls still work, but they have been marked as deprecated and will be removed. Instead, use the Guice Multibinder to bind `DomainReferenceDeletionHandler`

or accordingly `UserReferenceDeletionHandler`

as described in [Concept - Mass Data Cleanup](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48705175554/Concept+-+Mass+Data+Cleanup).

The migration is only needed if `DomainDeletionPipeline`

is used in the cartridge.

In the cartridge properties file, remove the `DomainDeletionPipeline`

configuration.

Afterwards, add and bind a cartridge-specific domain reference deletion handler as described in [Cookbook - Mass Data Cleanup | Recipe: Add and Bind a Cartridge-Specific Domain Reference Deletion Handler](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48704880642#Cookbook-MassDataCleanup-HowtoaddandconfigureacartridgespecificdomaindeletionpipelineRecipe%3AAddandBindaCartridge-SpecificDomainReferenceDeletionHandler), which is the replacement for the removed pipeline from the properties file. In that new domain reference deletion handler, you can migrate the previous pipeline execution for the domain reference deletion handling of the cartridge.

The migration is only needed if `UserDeletionPipeline`

is used in the cartridge.

In the cartridge properties file, remove the `UserDeletionPipeline`

configuration.

Afterwards, add and bind a cartridge-specific user reference deletion handler similar to domains as described in [Cookbook - Mass Data Cleanup | Recipe: Add and Bind a Cartridge-Specific Domain Reference Deletion Handler](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48704880642#Cookbook-MassDataCleanup-HowtoaddandconfigureacartridgespecificdomaindeletionpipelineRecipe%3AAddandBindaCartridge-SpecificDomainReferenceDeletionHandler), which is the replacement for the removed pipeline from the properties file. In that new user reference deletion handler, you can migrate the previous pipeline execution for the user reference deletion handling of the cartridge.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.