---
id: '272635460defda73a9313dab431b7646'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2E5612'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:38:14.730093+00:00'
---
Target group of this document and the accompanying cookbook are developers who need to create new assemblies and maintain existing ones. This document assumes that you are familiar with [Concept - Continuous Delivery Tools (valid to 7.10)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1784317189), at least up to chapter [Assemblies](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1784317189#Concept-ContinuousDeliveryTools(validto7.10)-Assemblies).

| Phrase | Meaning |
|---|---|
| Version Control System (VCS) | Also known as source control, source code management systems (SCM), or revision control systems (RCS). VCS is a mechanism for keeping multiple versions of your files, so that when you modify a file you can still access the previous revisions. |
| Artifact Repository | Place, where build and package software components are located. Provide a common interface to a dependency management system. |
| Code Analysis | Process to analyze source code to calculate metrics, find bugs, etc. |
| Continuous Delivery Pipeline | Sometimes called Deployment Pipeline, describes the stages, which code artifacts runs through source to production system. |
| System Component | A software package of different code artifacts and files, that have to be deployed together. |
| System Component Set | Is a container for system components, that needs to be build and branched together. |
| Assembly | An assembly references one or more system components residing in the same or a configured artifact repository in order to deploy or deliver them together. |
| Build Process | Compiles and packages files and code artifacts from a source project to deployable artifacts. |
| Publish Process | The process which transfers the deployable artifacts to a configured artifact repository. |
| Assembly Process | This process combines several system components to an assembly. |
| Deployment Process | This process extracts files and code artifacts from an artifact repository and applies the configuration. |
| Project Gradle Distribution | This is a customized Gradle distribution with the preconfigured artifact repositories and Gradle plugins. |
| Gradle Plugin | A Gradle plugin packages up reusable pieces of build logic, which can be used across many different projects and builds. |
| Project Gradle Plugin | This is a Gradle plugin which contains special corporate respectively project settings. |
| Corporate Plugin | The term is used as a synonym for Project Gradle Plugin. |
| Gradle Extension Object | Java Bean compliant class holding configurations for Gradle plugins. |
| Gradle Wrapper | The Gradle Wrapper is the preferred way of starting a Gradle build. The wrapper is a batch script on Windows, and a shell script for other operating systems. When you start a Gradle build via the wrapper, Gradle will be automatically downloaded and used to run the build. See for more information The Gradle Wrapper in the Gradle documentation (
|
| Intershop Cluster | A number of hosts of different types serving an Intershop 7. |
| Cluster Node | One separately deployable part of an Intershop cluster. A host can run multiple nodes of one Intershop cluster. |

Like any component the assembly has a source form (located in the version control system) and a built form (located in an artifact repository). Also there is a process called *assembly process* transforming the sources into the published from.

This chapter describes the published form and how it is interpreted by the deployment. The next chapter covers the process of creating it and the source form.

Each binary assembly has an *ivy.xml* file. The following example demonstrates basic structure and typical contents of an assembly's *ivy.xml* file:

<ivy-module version="2.0" xmlns:e="http://ant.apache.org/ivy/extra"> <info organisation="com.intershop.assembly" module="primetech" revision="7.5.0.0.20140207101035" status="integration" publication="20140207124937" e:productName="Intershop 7" e:copyrightOwner="Intershop Communications" e:copyrightFrom="2005"> <e:hostType name="appserver" includeCartridges="false" includeShare="false" includeLocal="true"/> <e:hostType name="share" includeCartridges="true" includeShare="true" includeLocal="false"/> <e:hostType name="webserver" includeCartridges="false" includeShare="false" includeLocal="true"/> <e:environment name="development"/> <e:environment name="production"/> <e:environment name="test"/> </info> <configurations> <conf name="appserver" visibility="public"/> <conf name="default" visibility="public"/> <conf name="deploy-plugins" visibility="public"/> <conf name="development-cartridges" visibility="public"/> <conf name="init-cartridges" visibility="public"/> <conf name="production-cartridges" visibility="public"/> <conf name="share" visibility="public"/> <conf name="test-cartridges" visibility="public"/> <conf name="webserver" visibility="public"/> </configurations> <publications> <artifact name="deploy-settings" type="deploy-settings-gradle" ext="gradle" conf="default"/> <artifact name="deploy" type="deploy-gradle" ext="gradle" conf="default"/> <artifact name="database-dump" type="dump" ext="dmp" conf="default"/> <artifact name="branding" type="share" ext="zip" conf="default"/> </publications> <dependencies defaultconfmapping="*->;default"> <dependency org="com.intershop" name="3rd_oracle" rev="11.2.0.3.0.2" conf="appserver, development-cartridges, production-cartridges, test-cartridges" transitive="false"/> <dependency org="com.intershop" name="runtime" rev="7.5.0.0.20140207101035" conf="appserver, development-cartridges, production-cartridges, test-cartridges, webserver" transitive="false"/> <dependency org="com.intershop" name="tools" rev="7.5.0.0.20140207101035" conf="development-cartridges, production-cartridges, test-cartridges" transitive="false"/> <dependency org="com.intershop" name="pf_cartridge" rev="7.5.0.0.20140207101035" conf="development-cartridges, production-cartridges, test-cartridges" transitive="false"/> <dependency org="com.intershop" name="pf_objectgraph" rev="7.5.0.0.20140207101035" conf="development-cartridges, production-cartridges, test-cartridges" transitive="false"/> ... </dependencies> </ivy-module>

The `dependencies`

element lists all contained components as dependencies. Each `dependency`

declares an exact version number (not version expressions like `7.5.0.0.+`

).

Also an assembly has a number of named subsets, technically represented by what are called [Ivy configurations](http://ant.apache.org/ivy/history/trunk/tutorial/conf.html). Each assembly subset may contain an arbitrary amount of components and a component can be contained in a huge variety of subsets, as indicated by the `conf`

attribute of the `dependency`

element.

Examples of such subsets are components to be deployed on different host types, like components for appserver and webserver hosts. It is possible to use this technique for any aspect in deployment, where it is necessary to mark components for a certain purpose, also custom ones. The (kinds of) subsets predefined by Intershop are described in section [Assembly Subsets](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Concept-GradleAssemblyTools-AssemblySubsets).

No nesting of assemblies

Built assemblies never depend on other assemblies, i.e., it is not possible to describe a nesting of assemblies. Instead a source assembly may inherit contents from another assembly. (But there are no indications of that in the resulting binary.)

One advantage of this is that the assembly's *ivy.xml* file completely describes components that can be deployed/are used during deployment. To leverage this the assembly's *ivy.xml* file are deployed to *IS_SHARE* and *IS_HOME*.

Besides dependencies to other components, the assembly's *ivy.xml* file also describes artifacts of the assembly. Artifacts of the assembly are contained as files near the *ivy.xml* file in the artifact repository. It is useful to have artifacts not only in infrastructure components and cartridges, but also in assemblies, for artifacts that can only be created once all contained components and their versions are known. An example is the database dump (useful for demo-purposes) of all cartridges. It is possible to add custom artifacts. The (types of) artifacts predefined by Intershop are described in the section [Generated Assembly Artifacts](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Concept-GradleAssemblyTools-AssemblyArtifacts).

Lastly the assembly contains additional meta-data using Ivy 'extra attributes' (attributes of the `info`

element) or 'extra elements' (nested elements in the `info`

element). This also leaves room for arbitrary customization. Types of meta-data predefined by Intershop, like copyright information, that are displayed on login screens, are described in the [Cookbook - Gradle Assembly Tools (valid to 7.8)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1788155636).

The assembly distinguishes between two kinds of assigned system components: cartridges and infrastructure components. Whether a system component is considered as a cartridge or an infrastructure component is therefore determined by the assembly subsets it is assigned to. It is neither defined by any meta-data (i.e., the *ivy.xml* file) in the system component itself nor by any convention or rule.

Cartridges are all these system components that are assigned to one or more environments or the subset *init-cartridges* (see descriptions below). A system component that is marked as a *cartridge* in the way it is built and deployed:

`CartridgeDeploymentPlugin`

otherwise.Cartridge location

Until Intershop 7.4, cartridges were always located in *IS_SHARE/system/cartridges*.

Starting with Intershop 7.5, the location for cartridge deployment can be configured. In this concept, * CARTRIDGES_DIR* refers to the configured cartridge location.

Also system components marked as cartridges are added to the *CARTRIDGES_DIR/cartridgelist.properties* file.

Minimum requirements for a cartridge

`CartridgeDeploymentPlugin`

already includes this.Besides the *ivy.xml* file the `CartridgeDeploymentPlugin`

also deploys:

Infrastructure components are all components that are assigned to one or more host types (see below).

Minimum requirements for an infrastructure component

Most of these scripts apply the `InfrastructureDeploymentPlugin`

which deploys:

*Environments* are different stages in the life-cycle of an assembly, like development, demo, quality assurance and production. At time of deployment exactly one environment is selected.

An environment is declared using an `environment`

element nested in the `info`

element.

An environment has a name, which is an arbitrary string.

Also it has an associated Ivy configuration by the name `<environment>-cartridges`

. Components assigned to this configuration are only included in the deployment if the environment is selected. Also they are considered cartridges (see above).

There is only one - environment independent - database dump generated for a single assembly. Cartridges containing DBInit prepares should be part of all environments. Or turned the other way around, a cartridge that is special to one environment should not contain DBInit preparers.

*Host types* are types of nodes in a cluster deployment. They are declared using a `host-type`

element nested in the `info`

element of the assemblies *ivy.xml* file. At time of deployment exactly one host type is selected possessing a name, which is an arbitrary string.

Also it has an associated Ivy configuration with the same name. System components assigned to this configuration are only included in the deployment if the host type is selected. Also they are considered infrastructure components (see above).

Components may be assigned to multiple host types. The host type's flags control indicates which artifacts are to be deployed for each component. There are four flags for each host type:

`includeShare`

specifies share artifacts (like `includeLocal`

specifies instance-specific artifacts (like executable files) to be deployed locally (`includeCartridges`

specifies the cartridge directory's artifacts to be deployed (the cartridge's `includeJavadoc`

specifies the Javadoc will be deployed for all components (including cartridges) as well. (since Gradle Tools 2.0)See section [Cartridges](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Concept-GradleAssemblyTools-Cartridge) below for what *cartridge* means in the context of a deployment. Depending on the set flag of the host type (`includeCartridges`

, `includeShare`

or `includeJavadoc`

), the deployment will load cartridges in addition to the host type's own components.

There is an implicit host type `all`

, that can be selected upon deployment despite not being declared in the assemblies *ivy.xml* file. The host type `all`

is used for the single-machine-installation. It contains all components of all other host types, and has all four flags set to true. (Which also explains why `includeShare`

and `includeLocal`

are independent flags and not neceessarily the opposite of each other.)

It is possible to define custom host types. Predefined are: `webserver`

, `appserver`

, `share`

, `javadoc`

(until 7.5) and `solr`

(since 7.5) (see for the [Concept - Continuous Delivery Tools | Assembly Subsset Host Type](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1784317189#Concept-ContinuousDeliveryTools(validto7.10)-AssemblySubssetHostType) details). Predefined in this context means, that most assemblies delivered by Intershop declares them.

The Ivy configuration *init-cartridges* contains system components that should be deployed as cartridges, but only be loaded by the DBInit tool and not by the application server.

This is available as a safety measure against running potentially unsecure DBInit code (like special pipelines) in the application server. If a cartridge contains both production and DBinit code it can instead be added to an environment.

Based on the selected host type and environment, components and cartridges are selected for deployment.

The set of cartridges to be deployed is calculated the following way:

The *IS_SHARE/system/cartridges/cartridgelist.properties* is generated during the deployment by:

`cartridges`

(for the application server) with all cartridges of the selected environment`cartridges.dbinit`

(for the dbinit) with all cartridges of the selected environment plus all init-cartridgesNon-DBInit-Cartridges

The cartridges in `cartridges.dbinit`

are now always a super-set of those in `cartridges`

. The DBInit automatically detects which of the cartridges in `cartridges.dbinit`

actually contain preparers to be executed.

The set of components to be deployed in total is calculated the following way:

`includeCartridges`

set, or no cartridges otherwise.The following picture shows an assembly with a few subsets, cartridges and infrastructure components:

The next diagram shows, which components get deployed at deployment time:

(Actually any environment would result in the same deployment here, because the host-type *appserver* does not include cartridges.)

The last diagram shows, which components get deployed if at deployment time

The Ivy configuration deploy-plugins contains the components needed to run the deployment. They are listed using an exact version (instead of a version expression like `1.0.0.+`

) to ensure that running a deployment on the same assembly (using the same configuration) will always have the same result.

You should always inherit the configuration deploy-plugins from an assembly supplied by Intershop/your vendor. (You may add additional deploy-plugins, see the [Cookbook - Gradle Assembly Tools (valid to 7.8)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1788155636) for details.)

The assembly process generates or copies artifacts, that are required for the deployment process. These artifacts are described in this section.

Assemblies must contain two artifacts to control the overall flow of the deployment:

For more information on the contents and roles of these files see the [Concept - Gradle Deployment Tools](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1775684692/Concept+-+Gradle+Deployment+Tools).

Assemblies may contain a database dump that is generated during the assembly process. This dump can be used in certain environments (like demo servers or for developers) to initialize the database and save time compared to running DBInit.

The assembly may contain arbitrary artifacts of type *share*. These artifacts must be *zip*-files and are extracted to *IS_SHARE* directory. An example of such an artifact is a package of branding installations in the *<IS_SHARE>/sites* folder. This package is generated during the DBInit as a byproduct when running a `BrandingPreparer`

and must be deployed, so a dump import can fully replace a DBInit.

The assembly process is a build process, running a *build.gradle* file. The main Gradle task to run the assembly process is to *publish*. The following picture shows the steps of the assembly process.

The steps filled with grey are optional:

`releaseWithDump`

is set to `true`

(default: `false`

).On continuous Integration servers, the `releaseWithDump`

property should be set, also some tests should be executed.

In a developer environment `releaseWithDump`

is typically not set. The remaining two steps when running the task *publish* are lightweight and fast, reducing the assembly process to the bare minimum. They can still be executed by running dedicated Gradle tasks, see below.

The core of the assembly process is to generate the *ivy.xml* file of the assembly from declarations in the *build.gradle* file. [Dependencies and configurations in the Gradle project](http://www.gradle.org/docs/current/userguide/dependency_management.html) result in dependencies and configurations in the assembly's *ivy.xml* file. If transitive dependencies are specified, they are resolved transitively at first and all resulting components are added as dependencies in the *ivy.xml*.

You can use Gradle's DSL for dependency management to the full extent to add/modify/exclude dependencies. For most common tasks (like adding cartridges to an environment) we offer a more convenient custom DSL. See the [Cookbook - Gradle Assembly Tools (valid to 7.8)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1788155636) for details.

For generating the *cartridgelist.properties* during deployment, cartridges are sorted in the resulting *ivy.xml* using a file named *cartridge-order.txt*.

As a pre-requisite of later steps the assembly must be deployed. The deployment during the assembly is as close to a deployment in production as it is possible, i.e., it uses the same deployment scripts and plugins like the real deployment does.

Before running the deployment the assembly process must:

The preliminary version of the assembly is called the *build assembly publication*. It

`build`

(for example `com.intershop.assembly:intershop7:build`

) andDevelopers can trigger this step by running the Gradle task `deployServer`

. The resulting server is sufficient for running most manual and automatic tests during development.

The deployment during the assembly process always specifies host type `all`

, i.e., a single machine deployment.

The DBInit is run inside the deployed server. The assembly process observes the console output/log files of the DBInit and fails if any errors occur.

Developers can trigger this step by running the task `dbinit`

.

After running the DBInit the legacy ant export script is used to generate a database dump file.

Optionally some some tests can be executed by the `test`

task, including:

and observing log-files for errors/warnings. The assembly process fails if an error occurs.

Starting with Gradle Tools 2.3, the assembly process also executes certain integration tests, that are:

`test`

,`tests.unit`

for test cases, that are starting an embedded server instance.`ishUnitTest`

.Integration test execution is based on Gradle's [ Test task](http://gradle.org/docs/2.3/dsl/org.gradle.api.tasks.testing.Test.html), so that all standard functionalities also apply for integration tests, e.g.,

The overall `check`

task depends on all kinds of test tasks. In the future, more types of integration tests may be executable during the assembly process. Call the `test`

task instead of `check`

to execute only smoke tests.

The assembly process fails if an error occurs.

Finally a non-preliminary *ivy.xml* file is generated, containing the database dump as an artifact if `releaseWithDump`

is `true`

. The *ivy.xml* file and all declared artifacts are then uploaded/copied to a repository. From there they can be deployed or have other assemblies inherit from them.

The steps described above are provided by two Gradle Plugins:

`com.intershop.build.gradle:assembly`

. This functionality is very general and not limited to be used to deploy Intershop 7 based projects.`com.intershop.build.gradle:ish-assembly`

and are specific to Intershop 7 based projects and runtime architecture.Typical source files used to build an assembly are:

| File Name | Purpose |
|---|---|
build.gradle | describes build steps and contents of the assembly |
gradle.properties | specifies frequently/automatically changing configuration for the assembly process, especially version numbers |
cartridge-order.txt | describes the order of cartridges for the cartridgelist.properties file |
deploy-settings.gradle, deploy.gradle | published as artifacts by these names (see section
|

It is possible to inherit declarations/contents from existing binary assemblies automatically. The following things can be inherited:

See the [Cookbook - Gradle Assembly Tools (valid to 7.8)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1788155636) for how the custom DSL for assembly inheritance works.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.