---
id: '2732a4ac7b494ed669dd85fdf085cd1d'
title: 'Customer Import and Export'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32K523'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:42.030965+00:00'
---
# Customer Import and Export

Note:

The tasks described in this section are performed in the context of a sales channel.

## Uploading Customer Accounts for Import

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Customers | Import & Export.
This displays the Import & Export overview page.
-
In the Import & Export row, click Upload.
A list of files that have already been uploaded is displayed.
- In the Upload File field, specify the file path or click Choose File to locate the file.
-
Click Upload to upload the file.
The uploaded file is displayed in the list. It can now be imported.

Tip:

In order to save system resources, Intershop recommends to delete the uploaded import files after the import process has been completed.

## Downloading Customer Export Files

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Customers | Import & Export.
This displays the Import & Export overview page.
-
In the Import & Export row, click Download.
A list of files that have been exported is displayed.
- Click a file name to save the corresponding file.

Tip:

After you have downloaded and saved export files, Intershop recommends to delete the export files in order to save system resources.

## Exporting Customer Accounts (XML)

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Customers | Import & Export.
This displays the Import & Export overview page.
-
In the Customers (XML) row, click Export.
The customer list view is displayed.
- Select the customers to export and provide a name for the export file.
-
Click Finish.
The export process is started immediately. The Import & Export Status dialog is displayed.
-
Download the export file.
For details, see
[Downloading Customer Export Files](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/customer_management/topic_customer_import_and_export.html#task_cons_impex_dl).

## Importing Customer Accounts (XML)

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Customers | Import & Export.
This displays the Import & Export overview page.
-
Upload the file to be imported.
For details, see
[Uploading Customer Accounts for Import](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/customer_management/topic_customer_import_and_export.html#task_cons_impex_upl). -
In the Customers (XML) row, click Import.
A list of files that can be imported is displayed.
-
Select file to import, then click Next.
The import file is now validated. When successful, the number of customer accounts detected by the parser is displayed. In case of errors, error messages are generated. You can also download the log file.
-
Select the import mode.
The available import modes include OMIT, IGNORE, UPDATE, REPLACE, DELETE, and INITIAL. For import mode details, see
[Standard Import Modes](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/concept_catalog_import_and_export.html#con_cat_impex_modes). -
Click Import.
The export process is started immediately. The Import & Export Status dialog is displayed.