---
id: '276ee2e705e151f8f30600226c3b80a8'
title: 'Guide - Intershop PWA'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/30891G'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:21.393364+00:00'
---
It is possible to create multiple themes for the PWA, and the Intershop Progressive Web App currently uses multi-theming to provide different features, configurations, and styles for the B2B and the B2C application.

This mechanism uses Angular configurations to replace files for each configuration.

The styles for B2B are defined in *src/styles/themes/b2b/style.scss*, for B2C in *src/styles/themes/b2c/style.scss*.

Before using multiple themes, use schematics to set your default theme: [Customizations - Start Customization](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/g/intershop/intershop-pwa/blob/develop/docs/guides/customizations.md#start-customization).

Now add another theme **without** using `--default`

:

`node schematics/customization/add <theme-prefix>`

This will add the theme to the corresponding files and creates styling-specific folders and files, see [Customizations - Start Customization](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/g/intershop/intershop-pwa/blob/develop/docs/guides/customizations.md#start-customization).

Note

To use this feature, the feature toggle `extraConfiguration`

must be enabled.

Warning

Multiple themes (e.g., for different channels or brands) increase the build and deployment time of the PWA SSR container.

This is okay for a limited number of themes (2-3) but will become problematic the higher the number gets.

A solution could be to use only one theme that can be configured for the different channels/brands at runtime.

With Intershop PWA 4.1 the two standard themes `b2b`

and `b2c`

were refactored so that the `b2c`

theme could be changed into a configurable theme.

Configurable in this context means adaptable at runtime [using CSS custom properties (CSS variables)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Using_CSS_custom_properties).

This way only one configurable theme is needed at build time that can then be adapted through an ICM back office CMS *Configuration* component on channel or application level.

This differs from compiling different themes at build time, e.g., with SCSS variables and using them for different channels through the [Multi Site Configuration](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/g/intershop/intershop-pwa/blob/develop/docs/guides/multi-site-configurations.md).

The difference between the default `b2b`

theme and the configurable `b2c`

theme lies in the way the SCSS variables are initialized.

The underlying `.scss`

files are the same for the standard Intershop PWA.

While the `b2b`

theme uses a [ variables.scss](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/develop/src/styles/themes/b2b/variables.scss) that directly assigns property values to the SCSS variables, the

`b2c`

theme assigns CSS custom properties to the SCSS variables (see `variables.scss`

`b2b - variables.scss`


```
$logo: url('/assets/themes/b2b/img/logo.svg');
$logo-width: 114px;
...
$font-family-regular: 'robotoregular', 'Helvetica', 'Arial', sans-serif;
...
$CORPORATE-PRIMARY: #006b99; // sea blue
$CORPORATE-SECONDARY: darken($CORPORATE-PRIMARY, 10%);
$CORPORATE-LIGHT: lighten($CORPORATE-PRIMARY, 10%);
$CORPORATE-DARK: darken($CORPORATE-PRIMARY, 20%);
$CORPORATE-SHADOW: #7f9ecc80; // with alpha transparency
...
$text-color-corporate: $CORPORATE-PRIMARY;
```


`b2c - variables.scss`


```
$logo: var(--logo);
$logo-width: var(--logo-width);
...
$font-family-regular: var(--font-family-regular);
...
$CORPORATE-PRIMARY: var(--corporate-primary);
$CORPORATE-SECONDARY: var(--corporate-secondary);
$CORPORATE-LIGHT: var(--corporate-light);
$CORPORATE-DARK: var(--corporate-dark);
$CORPORATE-SHADOW: var(--corporate-shadow);
...
$text-color-corporate: var(--text-color-corporate);
```


In the [ properties.scss](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/develop/src/styles/themes/b2c/properties.scss) actual values are assigned to these CSS custom properties.

`b2c - properties.scss`


```
:root {
--logo: url('/assets/themes/b2c/img/logo.svg');
--logo-width: 114px;
...
--font-family-regular: 'robotoregular', 'Helvetica', 'Arial', sans-serif;
...
--corporate-primary: #006f6f; // dark turquoise
--corporate-secondary: #006464;
--corporate-light: #009797;
--corporate-dark: #005959;
--corporate-shadow: #73aaaa80; // with alpha transparency
...
--text-color-corporate: var(--corporate-primary);
}
```


With the introduction of CSS custom properties, the values of these properties can be overridden at runtime, in our case by defining them as inline styles in the `html`

tag.

```
<html style="--logo: url(https://localhost/INTERSHOP/static/WFS/inSPIRED-inTRONICS_Business-Site/rest/inSPIRED-inTRONICS_Business-rest/en_US/config/logo.svg); --logo-width: 260px; -font-family-regular: Open+Sans; --corporate-primary: #006b99;" lang="en-US">
```


Note

SCSS color calculations do not work with CSS custom properties, they need real values.

Therefore, SCSS functions like `darken()`

and `lighten()`

do not work with values like `var(--corporate-primary)`

.

The standard Intershop PWA SCSS styling was adapted to no longer use such functions.

The underlying Bootstrap styling still uses color calculations based on the SCSS variables `$primary`

and `$secondary`

.

For that reason these variables have to be set with actual values so the default Bootstrap stylings can be generated.

If necessary, such bootstrap-generated styles with mismatching colors must be overridden in the project styles (see [ button.scss](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/develop/src/styles/global/buttons.scss)).

To configure the configurable `b2c`

theme within the ICM back office, a specific *Configuration* CMS include (`include.configuration.pagelet2-Include`

) with an assigned *Configuration* CMS component (`component.configuration.pagelet2-Component`

) is required.

The sources are available with ICM 7.10.40.3 (in the `app_sf_pwa_cm`

cartridge) but can be integrated in any earlier ICM version as well.

With the *Configuration* component in place, the theme configuration can be changed via CMS on organization, channel, or application level.

The *Configuration* component provides various configuration parameters for the PWA.

Regarding CSS custom properties for a configurable theme, it provides options to change the *Logo*, *Logo (mobile)* and *CSS Properties* in general.

You can also include additional *CSS fonts* that can be referenced in the *CSS properties*.

Independent of the used theme, which is configurable via CSS custom properties, the *Configuration* component can be used to change the *Favicon*, to reference an additional *CSS File*, or to add additional *CSS Styling*.

Also the used feature set can be changed with the *Features* and *Additional Features* parameters, and additional custom *Configuration JSON* can be provided for any specific customization needs.

| Parameters | Values | Description |
|---|---|---|
| Logo | image reference | Brand logo, can be a reference to an ICM managed image (uploaded and selected), an absolute URL (`https://` ), or with the prefix `file://` pointing to an image in the PWA assets folder |
| Logo (mobile) | image reference | Brand logo on mobile devices (see "Logo" description) |
| Favicon | image reference | Storefront Favicon (see "Logo" description) |
| CSS Properties | key-value pairs | CSS custom properties as multiline key (name without `--` ) value pairs separated by a `:` , configurable properties can be found in `properties.scss` , example: `corporate-primary:#006b99` |
| CSS Fonts | font URL | CSS font references (multiline) (e.g.; `https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Open+Sans` ) |
| CSS File | URL | CSS style file reference, either ICM managed (uploaded and selected, could even be an unzipped `branding.zip` ), an absolute URL (`https://` ), or with the prefix `file://` pointing to a file in the PWA assets folder |
| CSS Styling | URL | CSS style definitions, added via a `style` tag to the HTML `head` |
| Features | comma separated list | Enabled PWA features, a comma separated features list, if empty, all default features of the theme will be enabled |
| Additional Features | comma separated list | Additional PWA features, a comma separated list of features added to the default feature set of the used theme |
| Configuration JSON | JSON | Additional Configuration data in JSON notation, will be available in the PWA state, accessible via `appFacade.extraSetting$(path)` |

Note

The `Features`

or `Additional Features`

configuration might not work for all features as expected or without problems in development environments.

In these cases, use the `features`

configuration in `environment.development.ts`

to enable a wanted feature.

In production-like environments with SSR and state transfer, the configured feature set will be initialized correctly.

The *Configuration* CMS component provides a generic *Configuration JSON* parameter that can be used to add any structured data in JSON format for the specific needs of the PWA customization in projects without having to change or extend the CMS component model.

This could be used, for example, to provide additional tracking configuration information.

The data is available as JSON in the PWA state and can easily be accessed via a facade method.

```
this.appFacade.extraSetting$<string>('foo.bar')
```


If additional document manipulation needs to be done for the customization, the `setThemeConfiguration`

method of the `configuration.service.ts`

is the current reference.

Please consider the [DOM manipulations advices](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/g/intershop/intershop-pwa/blob/develop/docs/guides/angular-component-development.md#dom-manipulations).

If the *Configuration JSON* does not suit the requirements for customizations well enough, it is always possible to extend the Pagelet model of the *Configuration* component in the ICM project sources.

Note

To use this feature, the feature toggle `extraConfiguration`

needs to be enabled.

For testing the configurable `b2c`

theme, even without an ICM that provides the needed CMS include and pagelet, we provide mock data that can be used instead.

Add this line to your `environment.development.ts`

:

`apiMockPaths: ['^cms/includes/include.configuration.pagelet2-Include'],`

Also the `icmChannel`

and the wanted `features`

set should be set in the `environment.development.ts`

if the ones from `environment.b2c.ts`

are not what you want.

To start the PWA with the `b2c`

theme, run

`ng s -c=b2c,development`

To experiment with the CMS *Configuration* component parameters, you can edit the [ src\assets\mock-data\cms\includes\include.configuration.pagelet2-Include\get.json](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/develop/src/assets/mock-data/cms/includes/include.configuration.pagelet2-Include/get.json).

To develop a custom configurable theme, you need to copy the `b2c`

theme as base of the custom theme instead of using the default `b2b`

theme.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.