---
id: '2793e14f6c1fe24014e6ccde3583d3e9'
title: 'Public Release Note'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/310E81'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:29:45.152368+00:00'
---
Welcome to Intershop Commerce Management 11.

This Public Release Note contains information about the latest features of Intershop Commerce Management. In addition, it serves as a quick reference for the latest documentation.

Intershop Commerce Management 11 comes with unique scaling options where the required infrastructure is provided fully automatically based on the required computing power. Kubernetes is used to orchestrate the application’s individual (Docker) containers.

Maintenance-related downtimes are drastically reduced and monthly releases enable ongoing technical and functional optimizations. In times of rising cybercrime and, therefore, an increasing need for data protection, ICM 11 will provide an infrastructure that is always state-of-the-art and secure.

For a list of new functionality and technical improvements, see [What's New in ICM 11](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48898900362/What+s+New+in+ICM+11).

Please see our feature list for more details about the new release:

Refer to the following page for information about system requirements:

This section lists the main entry points for ICM 11 project development.

For a list of all available ICM 11 documents, use the ICM 11 filter in our [Knowledge Base](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Search?qdo=ReplaceFilter&qtset=PRD102&qtrem=PRD112&qoff=0&qtext=&qoff=0).

For migrations within ICM 11 versions, refer to:

Intershop provides Migration Guidelines to ease the migration from 7.10 to 11+:

[Overview - Customization - Development Process - ICM 11+](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48444277617/Overview+-+Customization+-+Development+Process+-+ICM+11)

[Concept - Intershop Commerce Platform DevOps - CI/CD Development Process](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48420488846/Concept+-+Intershop+Commerce+Platform+DevOps+-+CI+CD+Development+Process)

Bug fixes for each release can be found in [ Product Releases](https://knowledge.intershop.com/prd/index.php) |

Updated Apache tika-core library to version 3.2.3 to fix the critical XXE vulnerability ([CVE-2025-66516](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-66516))

Due to fixed issue [100198](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/AWI-100198), you can now limit the number of pages displayed in a product search result list in the ICM back office by configuration via properties. When dealing with a large number of result items, the results will be displayed faster with this approach. For details, see [Guide - 11.12.0 - Query Configuration via Properties](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/49384587265/Guide+-+11.12.0+-+Query+Configuration+via+Properties).

Library updates, see [Guide - 11.11.0-LTS - Migration Library Updates](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/49044979810/Guide+-+11.11.0-LTS+-+Migration+Library+Updates)

A new Java API has been introduced that allows registering objects to be cleaned up to avoid using the deprecated `Object.finalize()`

method.

In order to support the planning of updates, upgrades and enhancements, Intershop Commerce Management 11 includes long-term support (LTS) releases. For more information, refer to [Concept - Continuous Releases (valid to 11.11)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48544055372/Concept+-+Continuous+Releases+valid+to+11.11) .

Initial LTS release

Search configuration: the use of product variation assignments instead of master product category assignment can now be configured in the search index back office in the detail view of index attribute *GroupMasterUUID*.

New metrics are available for monitoring SSO client secret expiration (date of expiry must be “config”) and for analyzing traffic, see [Guide - Monitoring Metrics Reference](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48597696977/Guide+-+Monitoring+Metrics+Reference).

Wish List REST API 1.3.0 contains a new response body for the `share` subresource, a new matrix parameter for accessing private shared wish lists, and a new property indicating whether a wish list is shared.

Product and Category REST API as well as Product and Catalog Management REST API have been updated. See [Reference - Intershop Commerce Management 11 REST API](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/37689296013/Reference+-+Intershop+Commerce+Management+11+REST+API) for further details.

Major rework with resulting performance improvements for BMECat import. For details see [Guide - 11.10.1 - Moving BME_Catalog_ID to Improve BMECatalog Import](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48753147906/Guide+-+11.10.1+-+Moving+BME_Catalog_ID+to+Improve+BMECatalog+Import).

The performance of job *Update Shop Statistics* has also been improved, see [Guide - 11.10.1 - Activate GroupsToRun in Reworked Update Shop Statistics Job](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48790372674/Guide+-+11.10.1+-+Activate+GroupsToRun+in+Reworked+Update+Shop+Statistics+Job).

For all updates, see [Overview - ICM 11 Migration](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/34077868747/Overview+-+ICM+11+Migration).

Technology Changes:

(DB)Preparer can now trigger a page cache reset for sites, so template changes can be pushed/forced to customers after the deployment.

Fix: Login of ICM and SMC back office does not work after deployment

This release version has a known issue and did not achieve general availability (GA). This release should not be used.

The back office login pages have a new look and feel.

You can now handle catalog categories, product links, and product attachments with the Product and Catalog Management REST API, see [Reference - Intershop Commerce Management 11 REST API](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/37689296013/Reference+-+Intershop+Commerce+Management+11+REST+API).

Fix: Correct calculation of cache misses if value for a key was null

Technology Changes:

Job configurations imported by DBPrepare can now contain attribute values of type “Multiple String”.

DBPrepare will now skip preparation steps in case the execution failed multiple (three) times to avoid unnecessary downtimes on production systems, see [Concept - DBPrepare](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48424091649/Concept+-+DBPrepare). The behavior can be overruled by:

`intershop.dbinit.breakOnError`

and

`intershop.dbmigrate.breakOnError`


Improved logging for JGroups message delivery, retrieval, and acknowledgement

Fix: Login pages do no longer reveal why the login failed to avoid giving information to potential attackers.

Fix: Job executions do not protocol process execution duration time

Fix: Storing audit transaction items failed, because identifier needs to be truncated by database as provided ID was too long

Fix: DBPrepare migration steps were not marked for Oracle only, that leads to issue under Microsoft SQL server

Fix: Staging ORM connection is now closed before staging hooks are executed. This avoids automatically closed connections by the database.

Fix: Delete user in case the user is already marked as to be deleted

Fix: JDBCSequence keeps result set longer as expected; this leads to Out Of Memory

Fix: Avoid current read of product attribute names

A new price provider webhook has been introduced which allows for retrieval of prices from external systems, see [Concept - Price Webhook](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48580985130/Concept+-+Price+Webhook).

Order REST API 1.5.0 contains search parameters on line item level now, see [Reference - Intershop Commerce Management 11 REST API](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/37689296013/Reference+-+Intershop+Commerce+Management+11+REST+API).

Now you can handle product images with the [Reference - Product and Catalog Management REST API 1.0.0 (Beta)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48597664144/Reference+-+Product+and+Catalog+Management+REST+API+1.0.0+Beta).

Technology Changes:

A new metric provides the running jobs so that long running jobs can be identified.

When using login or the “forgot password” functionality, you will receive a generalized message that does not give any hints about whether an existing user login was found or not. Attackers cannot guess a correct user login with this security measure.

Fix: Previous log file locations have been removed in order to prevent log messages from being written pointing to those locations.

Fix: Users can no longer accumulate excessive transient session cookies from different application servers. To avoid oversized http headers, "unused" transient session cookies are removed after the count surpasses five. This may cause lost sessions during manual testing when multiple browser tabs are open on various sites. In addition, the web adapter removes duplicate http headers after collecting headers from remote includes.

You can now handle product assignments to a category with the [Reference - Product and Catalog Management REST API 1.0.0 (Beta)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48597664144/Reference+-+Product+and+Catalog+Management+REST+API+1.0.0+Beta).

The Shop REST API has been broken down into the following REST APIs for greater clarity. Apart from the documentation, the APIs are unchanged. See [Reference - Intershop Commerce Management 11 REST API](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/37689296013/Reference+-+Intershop+Commerce+Management+11+REST+API):

Attachment

Configuration

Contact

Internationalization

Store

Technology Changes:

The Swagger library update produces a version conflict with slf4j, see [Guide - 11.6.0 - Migration Library Updates](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48596647937/Guide+-+11.6.0+-+Migration+Library+Updates). ICM 11 still sticks to slf4j version 1.x, so all slf4j version 2.x must be explicitly excluded.

Now the Docker image contains JDK tools to create heap and thread dumps of the application server if the pod terminal can be attached. This facilitates the creation of a heap or thread dump of the ICM application server in case the application is unresponsive.

Fix: QueryORMObjectCollection to avoid resource leaks in case of using size and iterator methods, see [Guide - 11.6.0 - JDBCQueryProcessor Changes](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48573941759/Guide+-+11.6.0+-+JDBCQueryProcessor+Changes)

Fix: The global cache reset was removed, and in the event of a global cache reset the caller stack trace is logged at warn level now. A global cache reset should only happen in rare replication or migration scenarios. Previously, session table and business caches were cleared every hour.

Fix: DBPrepare now calculates the correct initialization mode in case the DBPrepare process was interrupted.

New [Reference - Product and Catalog Management REST API 1.0.0 (Beta)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48597664144/Reference+-+Product+and+Catalog+Management+REST+API+1.0.0+Beta) has been introduced.

Supporting major actions for managing products and catalogs in Intershop Commerce Management

Subject to changes. More functionality will be added iteratively.

New REST endpoint `GET /mediaassets`

that provides access to content images and other content media files has been introduced. It allows browsing through directory structures and provides a paging mechanism, see [Reference - Media Assets Management REST API 1.0.0 (Beta)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48597663847/Reference+-+Media+Assets+Management+REST+API+1.0.0+Beta).

A new configuration value was added to the Shop REST API, see [Reference - Shop REST API 1.5.0](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48562438435/Reference+-+Shop+REST+API+1.5.0).

New flag "EnableNewsletterSubscription" in configurations REST endpoint

New standard basket and order attributes on line item level have been introduced: "Partial Order Number" & "Customer Product ID", see [Online Help | Managing Shopping Cart Preferences](https://docs.intershop.com/icm/latest/olh/icm/en/operation_maintenance/task_managing_shopping_cart_preferences.html).

Configurable basket, order, and line item custom fields that are automatically displayed in approval and order confirmation e-mails

Channel-/application-specific display toggles for common basket, order, and line item attributes. The toggles are available in new version of /customer REST endpoint.

Update: Order REST API 1.4.0 contains search parameters “ICM order number”, “Customer Order ID” & “time-frame” (date), and supports paging now, see [Reference - Order REST API 1.4.0](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48597696513/Reference+-+Order+REST+API+1.4.0).

Technology Changes:

The PID (process identifier) file has been moved to a location inside the pod because the /intershop/logs directory, where it was previously stored by the Web Adapter, is indented to be mounted or exposed as a volume. /intershop/logs can be mounted to provide Web Adapter request logs.

The fix is not related to that ICM update directly; it is included in WA version 2.4.7.

Initial DBPrepare is now marked with serverImpact=SHUTDOWN, so that the server impact is declared correctly. The DBPrepare uses an additional locking to prevent initialization from different application servers at the same time.

Enabled heartbeat for shared read connection pool

Cleaned shared read connection pool from dead connections

Contact Center REST API now provides Co-Browsing URL for PWA, see [Reference - Intershop Commerce Management 11 REST API](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/37689296013/Reference+-+Intershop+Commerce+Management+11+REST+API).

Channel information was added to the product and catalog export in order to provide SPARQUE integrations with this information.

Technology Changes:

The default build directory has been changed from “target” to “build”, see [Guide - 11.4.0 - Usage of Standard Build Directory](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48493428927/Guide+-+11.4.0+-+Usage+of+Standard+Build+Directory).

The runtime-lib was no longer used, so that library and library path were removed from build and Docker image.

Fixed Webadapter ConfigurationServlet communication in case of errors during data retrieval

Improved logging around staging and job processing (avoid duplicate information, increase context information of info logs)

Fixed staging synchronization issue between edit and live server

Fixed resource leaks of failed sftp file transfers

New security feature: The content media file upload is now restricted for all locations in the back office, *including* the TinyMCE text editor. This is done by checking the file extension against the MIME type.

Some code artifacts of the Customer REST API were reworked. Customers or partners who customized the existing REST API need to adapt their implementation, see [Guide - 11.3.0 - Rework Customer REST API Code Artifacts](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48450864247/Guide+-+11.3.0+-+Rework+Customer+REST+API+Code+Artifacts).

An optional query parameter has been added to the Basket REST API, see [Reference - Basket REST API 1.4.0](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48560668673/Reference+-+Basket+REST+API+1.4.0).

DBPrepare will be executed for this update, see [Concept - DBPrepare](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48424091649/Concept+-+DBPrepare):

Fix the table name in sp_deleteOrders.sql for Oracle DB

Technology Changes:

Since ICM 11 does not need a license file to run, the usage of license key has been removed from several business logic, like auditing or revenue reporting.

Now an automated process updates used Docker images (JDK update to 17.0.7_7-jre). This update will contain only minor or patch updates of the JDK. These automated updates of the JDK will happen on minor ICM version only. Previously, updates of the JDK came on request or on a scheduled basis.

We added the New Relic Agent for APM and performance tracing (contains pipelines, pipelets, templates now)

The resource loader supports resources inside the jar, i.e. configuration can be loaded from java resources now. Previously, cartridge-specific logging extensions could be provided, but after moving these resources to the cartridge-jar file, a customization could not extend the logging configuration.

Fixed NPE at Authentication (ApiTokenModule)

The ConfigurationServlet now returns with http status codes instead of containing error messages/keys in the response, so the WA can handle errors on status and does not need to parse the body of the message.

Staging environments are still for development purposes only. The staging index files are now stored in the sites/root folder, which is mounted with an external volume. Previously, the staging processor created index files at a directory inside the container, which is very limited and should not be touched.

Fixed staging process state mapping

New security feature: The content media file upload is now restricted for all locations in the back office, which are not inside the TinyMCE text editor. This is done by checking the file extension against the MIME type. See , see [Online Help | Managing Image Files](https://docs.intershop.com/icm/latest/olh/icm/en/catalogs_products/topic_managing_image_files.html#task_pim_images_upl_file).

Enriched JWT access token with attributes `user`

and `customer`

in order to support protected search queries for SPARQUE integrations

The maximum number of public wish lists returned by the `GET /wishlists`

request has been limited, see [Reference - Wishlist REST API 1.1.0](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48559129631/Reference+-+Wishlist+REST+API+1.1.0).

DBPrepare will be executed for this update, see [Concept - DBPrepare](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48424091649/Concept+-+DBPrepare):

Updated views: ieproductcategoryassignment, V_PRODUCTSHARING

Technology Changes:

This release provides initial configuration for staging/replication environments for non-production systems. So developers can start developing for such environments.

Improving operations of ICM 11, the SMC and Operations now display K8s pod name and namespace, so that a semantical assignment to infrastructure information is given.

Since ICM 11 does not need a license file to run, pages about license report have been removed from the SMC.

To avoid duplicated effort, the new DBPrepare will execute all migration steps inside a new cartridge in case dbinit.properties does not exist, see [Guide - ICM 11 API Changes](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48390573880/Guide+-+11.x.x+API+Changes). Previously, a cartridge needed to support the migration and initialization processes of DBPrepare with different files (*dbinit.properties* and *migration*.properties*).

Fix: ResponseStatisticsFilter execution duration measurement swallows exception

Fix: ProductLink SQL statement takes 50% of the time

Added NewRelic sub-pipeline and template spans

Fix: SLDSystem and bc_backoffice in intershop.REST application

Fix: Missing cartridge runtime dependency of app_sf_headless

Fix: Missing cartridge runtime dependency of app_sf_headless

New [Reference - Inventory REST API 1.0.0](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48563912705/Reference+-+Inventory+REST+API+1.0.0) has been introduced

The new separated Inventory REST API call allows to receive `availableStock`

and `inStock`

information for SKUs. See [Reference - Inventory REST API 1.0.0 (ICM 7.10)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48413802607/Reference+-+Inventory+REST+API+1.0.0+ICM+7.10).

Extension of [Reference - Product and Category REST API 1.7.0](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48559197046/Reference+-+Product+and+Category+REST+API+1.7.0)

For the ProductsResource the following extended attributes are supported: `customAttributes`

, `reviews`

, `shippingMethods`

, `averageRating`

, `roundedAverageRating`

. For the ProductListResource the endOfLife and lastOrderDate were added as requestable attributes for the `attrs`

parameter.

For scenarios using 3rd-party inventory backend services with expensive calls, it is now also possible to remove these attributes (`availableStock`

and `inStock`

+ their corresponding backend calls) from the product detail call by configuration. See [Reference - Product and Category REST API 1.7.0](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48559197046/Reference+-+Product+and+Category+REST+API+1.7.0) on product detail call: `view`

and `attrs`

query parameter.

Changes affecting multiple REST APIs: the read-only properties `externalId`

and `externalUrn`

have been added to the address resource object. This compatible change affects the following APIs:

Technology Changes:

The customization now only ships libraries that are not delivered by the icm-as standard container. Previously, each customization shipped the entire set of libraries used by the customization.

Syntactical Javadoc errors (wrong references to java classes, methods, or parameter) have been fixed.

The server shutdown is consolidated and consistent now. Previously, the server shutdown had been split in several shutdown processes, aka onShutdown listener.

New health checks can now be tested at production systems. Now the dry run enables the health check, the result of the health check is written to the log, but the server will not react on the result of such check. Previously the server health check could be enabled or disabled, which made testing it on production impossible.

The server now starts without checking the license at server startup. The license file is still required at this version, e.g., for auditing signature algorithm initialization.

The ClassLoaderResourceTools now frees resources (like jar files and input-streams).

If the database connection is closed or disconnected (usually due to server or network problems), the import thread will now attempt to reconnect and run the import task again.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.