---
id: '27a78080e88c3d630543ac19e776e5af'
title: 'Requesting Product Data Approval'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32X367'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:11.280584+00:00'
---
# Requesting Product Data Approval

After completing the product data modifications, catalog & product managers can request the data approval by setting the approval status to "In Review".

## Requesting Product Data Approval in Detail View

-
Locate the product that requires approval.
Tip:You may perform a search to identify the intended product.
-
Click the name of the product you intend to edit.
The opens the General tab of the Standard Product dialog, displaying the current approval status in the upper right corner.
-
Click Send to review.
This switches the approval status for the current product to "In Review".

## Requesting Product Data Approval in Batch Mode

[Editing Products in Batch Mode](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/task_editing_products_in_batch_mode.html):

-
Locate the products that require approval.
Select the checkboxes for the products on the product list view and click the Edit Selected button. Alternatively, perform an advanced search (see
[Advanced Search](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/task_advanced_search_products.html)) and click the Edit All button to apply edits to the search result. -
Select the task Update Product Approval Status and click Next.
This starts the wizard to update the product approval status.
-
Select the current approval and/or completeness status, set "In Review" as the new approval status, and click Next.
This displays the confirmation page.
-
Verify the changes to be applied, then click Finish.
This switches the approval status for the selected products to "In Review".