---
id: '283e425cd490237effcb75f1274b4e71'
title: 'Catalog/Product Data Import/Export'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/323A25'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:33.239781+00:00'
---
# Catalog/Product Data Import/Export

Intershop Commerce Management allows for exporting and importing different sets of catalog and product data to and from various formats, including:

-
Exporting/importing categories to/from XML

-
Importing categories from CSV

-
Exporting/importing products to/from XML

-
Importing products from CSV

-
Exporting/importing classification categories to/from XML

-
Exporting/importing products and categories to/from BMEcat

-
Exporting/importing catalog views to/from XML (in sales channels only)

-
Exporting/importing product filters to/from XML (in sales channels only)

-
Exporting/importing variation types to/from XML

-
Importing variation types from CSV

-
Exporting/importing price lists to/from XML (in sales channels only)

-
Exporting/importing image meta data (in organizations/partner channels only)

-
Exporting/importing product attribute groups to/from XML


The steps to perform are basically the same for all data exports/imports. For details, see [General Import/Export Workflow](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/concept_catalog_import_and_export.html#con_cat_impex_wflow).

-
Only custom product attribute groups can be created via import.

-
The type of a product attribute group can be changed from custom to standard via import.

-
Standard product attribute groups cannot be changed to custom.

-
The name of a product attribute group can be changed only for custom product attribute groups.

-
Standard product attribute groups cannot be deleted via import.


## Uploading Catalog/Product Data for Import

Before files can be used for import, they have to be uploaded. To upload a file for import:

-
Select the intended management context from the context selection box, then select Catalogs | Import & Export.
This displays the Import & Export overview page.
-
In the Import & Export row, click Upload.
A list of files that have already been uploaded is displayed.
- In the Upload File field, specify the file path or click Choose File to locate the file.
-
Click Upload to upload the file.
The uploaded file is displayed in the list. It can now be imported.

## Downloading Catalog Export Files

Once files have been exported, they can be downloaded from the system. To download a file that has been exported:

-
Select the intended management context from the context selection box, then select Catalogs | Import & Export.
This displays the Import & Export overview page.
-
In the Import & Export row, click Download.
A list of files that have been exported is displayed.
-
Click a file name to save the corresponding file.
This displays the browser's download dialog, prompting you to save the file.

## Exporting Catalog/Product Data

To export catalog/product data:

-
Select the intended management context from the context selection box, then select Catalogs | Import & Export.
This displays the Import & Export overview page.
-
In the row of the intended export scope, click Export.
This displays a list of the objects that are eligible for the export.The catalog/product data export scopes include Categories (XML), Products (XML), Classification Categories (XML), Products and Categories (BMEcat), Variation Types (XML), Product Attribute Groups (XML). In sales channels, the catalog/product data export scopes also include Catalog Views (XML) and Product Filters (XML).
-
Select the objects to export or, if applicable, perform a search, then click Next.
Note:For category exports, there are no further steps. Clicking Finish after selecting the categories and providing an export file name immediately starts the export process.
- Select whether to export the search result or the selected objects, and provide a name for the export file.
-
Click Export.
The export process is started immediately. The Import & Export Status dialog is displayed.
-
Download the export file.
For details, see
[Downloading Catalog Export Files](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/topic_catalogproduct_data_importexport.html#task_pim_impex_cat_dl).

## Importing Catalog/Product Data

To import catalog/product data:

-
Select the intended management context from the context selection box, then select Catalogs | Import & Export.
This displays the Import & Export overview page.
-
Upload the file to be imported.
For details, see
[Uploading Catalog/Product Data for Import](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/topic_catalogproduct_data_importexport.html#task_pim_impex_cat_upl). -
In the row of the intended import scope, click Import.
The catalog/product data import scopes include Categories (XML), Categories (CSV), Products (XML), Products (CSV), Classification Categories (XML), Products and Categories (BMEcat), Variation Types (XML), Variation Types (CSV), Product Attribute Groups (XML). In sales channels, the catalog/product data export scopes also include Catalog Views (XML) and Product Filters (XML).
-
Select file to import, then click Next.
The import file is now validated. When successful, the number of objects detected by the parser is displayed. In case of errors, error messages are generated. You can also download the log file.
-
Select the intended locking conflict resolution.
For details about the locking conflict resolution options, see
[Object Locking](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/concept_catalog_import_and_export.html#con_cat_impex_lock). -
Select the import mode and, if required, the target catalog.
The available import modes include OMIT, IGNORE, UPDATE, REPLACE, DELETE, and INITIAL. For import mode details, see
[Standard Import Modes](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/concept_catalog_import_and_export.html#con_cat_impex_modes).Note:For category imports, you are prompted to select a target catalog if the import file does not specify a root category. When specified, the root category is assumed as the target catalog. -
Click Import.
The import process is started immediately. The Import & Export Status dialog is displayed.