---
id: '2a944bdceca9085120b6dd803de316c2'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2809G2'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:38:10.835900+00:00'
---
This document describes the basic concept of the basket (aka shopping cart) handling and the checkout process. It lists the features involved in the checkout process and points to relevant API elements and further documentation.

Please also have a look at related concepts and cookbooks:

You will find some API documentation in the Application Programming Guide or other sources on the Knowledge Base.

The picture below shows the cartridges relevant for basket handling and for the checkout processes. Intershop 7 provides a business layer containing reusable business components, mostly Java classes, pipelets and process pipelines. Based on business components, applications can be built in the application layer.

The order process is a core e-commerce business process that integrates many features like shipping, payment, promotions, etc. The glue code to integrate these features is located in cartridges *bc_orderprocess* and *sld_ch_b2c_app*. Most process pipelines and business object extensions are located there.

Baskets are differentiated according to their lifetimes. This way, currently there are two types of baskets:

During its lifetime a basket is in one of the following states:

After the basket creation (1) the basket is in the state BASKET_OPEN. The creation is triggered when a customer adds a product to the basket for the first time. When a customer successfully finishes his/her checkout (4), the basket gets the state BASKET_ORDERED. The transition (2) from BASKET_OPEN to BASKET_EXPIRED depends on the basket type. A session-based basket will get this state when the session times out or user logs out. A time-based basket which reaches the configured inactivity time period is moved to the basket history by a background job. As soon as the basket reaches the state BASKET_EXPIRED, it is treated in the same way independent from its type.

Either the basket is marked as removable by changing its state to BASKET_INVALID (5) after a configurable period of time (removed from history and DB) or it is "reactivated" for some reasons (3). The functionality that "reactivates" the basket from the basket history is in charge of removing certain parts of the basket, e.g., payment methods, addresses, item prices, etc.

The transition to BASKET_INVALID is made by a job. It updates the field status only. Another job purges (7) all invalid baskets from the database.

This job moves outdated time-based baskets into the basket history. A basket becomes part of the history ("historic"), when the state changes to BASKET_EXPIRED and the history date is set. Empty baskets are not kept in the history, but removed directly. The job is configured per organization. Since the baskets are still accessible by the repository and in the cache, the job has to be implemented in the Java layer. By doing so, the ORM layer will take care of the cache update.

Accessing the PLIs triggers to load the related objects. But we need to decide to delete directly. How to avoid that?

Preferences:

Preference name | Type | Comment |
|---|---|---|
BasketLifetime | Long | The amount of time that is configured in minutes as the lifetime of a time-based basket. |
BasketInHistoryLifetime | Long | The amount of time a basket is kept in the history that is configured in hours. A value of 0 means that the baskets are not kept in the history. |

All baskets which meet the following requirements have to be handled:

Field | Comparison | Value | Comment |
|---|---|---|---|
basket expiration type | Equals | BASKET_EXPIRATION_TYPE_TIME | |
status | Equals | BASKET_OPEN | |
domain | Equals | Organization domain | The domain the job runs for. |
last-touch-date | Smaller | current date - basket life time | Previously checked against creation date. |

All empty baskets found for the conditions above can be removed directly. For all other baskets, the basket state is set to BASKET_EXPIRED and the history date is filled with the current date. In case of a disabled basket history feature (`BasketInHistoryLifetime = 0`

), the state is changed directly to BASKET_INVALID afterwards.

This job cleans up the history from old baskets. A basket stays in the history only for a defined amount of time. As soon as the state changes to BASKET_INVALID, it is no longer part of the history. The job is configured per organization. Since the baskets are still accessible by the repository and possibly in the cache, the job has to be implemented in the Java layer. By doing so, the ORM layer will take care of the cache update.

Preferences:

Preference name | Type | Comment |
|---|---|---|
BasketInHistoryLifetime | Long | The amount of time a basket is kept in the history that is configured in hours. A value of 0 means that the baskets are not kept in the history. |

All baskets which meet the following requirements have to be handled:

Field | Comparison | Value | Comment |
|---|---|---|---|
status | Equals | BASKET_EXPIRED | |
domain | Equals | Organization domain | |
history-date | Smaller | current date - (configured) historic basket life time |

The state of all baskets found for the conditions above, is set to BASKET_INVALID.

Note

If the preference `BasketInHistoryLifetime`

has the value 0, the baskets will not be kept in the history. In that case the job *Invalidate History Baskets* will bring the baskets into the state BASKET_INVALID.

This job is defined for *SLDSystem* and removes all invalid baskets that have exceeded the expiration date for all organizations from the database. The product line items assigned to the baskets qualified for cleanup are removed from the database, too. For performance reasons this should not be done in the Java layer. Since the baskets are invalid and not used anymore, they are not accessible via the repository and are not present in the cache.

Job Parameters:

Parameter Name | Type | Comment |
|---|---|---|
MaxNumberOfBaskets | Integer | Limits the loop over to this number of baskets to avoid long running Tx. A value 0 or smaller means unlimited. |

All baskets which meet the following requirements have to be handled:

Field | Comparison | Value | Comment |
|---|---|---|---|
status | Equals | BASKET_INVALID | |
| history-date | Smaller | current date - (configured) historic basket life time |

For all baskets to be purged, the assigned product line items need to be retrieved and purged too.

The following settings can be set on the application level:

No. | Preference | Description | Necessity | Values | Value Description | Comment |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
1. | Expiration Type | Determines the time-out behavior of shopping carts. | One value mandatory (e.g., by drop down) | Time (default) | A time-based shopping cart expires after it is left untouched for a defined amount of time (see Shopping Cart Lifetime below). A user always gets the same shopping cart as in the last session until the shopping cart expires. | |
One value mandatory (e.g., by drop down) | Session | A session-based shopping cart expires when the user ends the session. A new shopping cart will be created for every session the user starts. | ||||
2. | Line Item Positioning | Specifies whether to position line items only initially or to update positions when a line item is removed from the shopping cart. | One value mandatory (e.g., by drop down) | Default: Keep Positions | Line item position is set only upon adding the line item to the shopping cart. If line items are removed from the shopping cart, the positions of the remaining line items are not adjusted. Example: Shopping cart containing positions 1,2,3,4,5,6. State after removing line items 2 and 4: 1,3,5,6. | |
| One value mandatory (e.g., by drop down) | Adjust Positions | Line item position is set upon adding the line item to the shopping cart. If line items are removed from the shopping cart, the positions of the remaining line items are adjusted to close the gaps between remaining positions. Example: Shopping cart containing positions 1,2,3,4,5,6. State after removing line items 2 and 4: 1,2,3,4. | ||||
3. | Shopping Cart Lifetime | Specifies the time (in minutes) during which a time-based shopping cart is kept alive. A shopping cart where the lifetime has not expired is shown as current shopping cart if a registered customer logs on for a new session. Note Only available if the expiration type "Time" is selected (amount of time that a shopping cart will be saved by the system). | Mandatory if expiration type "time" is selected | Default: 28,800 minutes | ||
4. | Maximum Number of Line Items | Defines the allowed number of line items inside a shopping cart | Mandatory | Default: 50 | ||
5. | Maximum Quantity for one Line Item | Defines the allowed item quantity of a line item inside a shopping cart | Mandatory | Default: 100 | ||
| 6. | Minimum Item Total | Defines the minimum item total for a currency | Optional | If there is no value defined, the minimum shopping cart value is 0. | The Minimum Item Total (MinIT) is independent of the taxation settings. So, if the taxation setting is gross, the MinIT refers to the Shopping Cart Subtotal including the taxes. If the taxation setting is net, the MinIT refers to the Shopping Cart Subtotal without taxes. | The base for the |
7. | Maximum Item Total | Defines the maximum item total for a currency | Optional | If there is no value defined, the maximum shopping cart value is unlimited. | The | The base for the Maximum Item Total is the sum of all line item totals minus item-based discounts (= subtotal of the shopping cart). This means that only the product prices will be considered. Additional down-streamed costs like shipping, surcharges, gifting or payment costs are not a part of the MaxIT. So, a customer is able to add a product to the cart which is under the MaxIT although the additional costs cause a higher Total Cart Value than the MaxIT |
8. | Display Taxes | Defines how the taxes will be displayed in the shopping cart and during the checkout (e.g., summarized or separated) This option is independent of the taxation preference of the channel. | One value mandatory (e.g., by drop down) | No taxes are displayed | ||
One value mandatory (e.g., by drop down) | Consolidated Taxes (default) | Taxes will be displayed in a summary. | ||||
One value mandatory (e.g., by drop down) | Breakdown Taxes | Taxes will be displayed broken down by the tax class. | ||||
One value mandatory (e.g., by drop down) | Consolidated Taxes and Consolidated Fees | Taxes and Fees will be displayed in a summary. | ||||
One value mandatory (e.g., by drop down) | Breakdown Taxes and Breakdown Fees | Taxes and fees will be displayed broken down by the tax class and the fee type. | ||||
9. | Tax Service Unavailable | Defines the checkout behavior if a taxation service was connected and if this service was currently not available. | One value mandatory (e.g., by drop down) | Stop Checkout Processing (default) | The customer cannot continue his/her checkout and cannot place an order. | |
One value mandatory (e.g., by drop down) | Continue the Checkout Process | The customer can continue the checkout and can place an order. He/She gets a specific message that he/she will get the correctly calculated taxes via e-mail/order confirmation mail. | ||||
10. | Add Product Behavior | Defines the behavior if a customer adds a product again which he/she has still added to the shopping cart | One value mandatory (e.g., by drop down) | Disallow Repeats | It is not possible to add the same product to the shopping cart twice. | It is not supported to add the same product (equal SKU) with different packaging units since that could cause problems in return management, inventory etc. |
One value mandatory (e.g., by drop down) | Merge Quantities (default) | If a product is added to the shopping cart which the shopping cart already contains, the quantity is recalculated but the line item is listed only once. | ||||
One value mandatory (e.g., by drop down) | Allow Repeats | It is possible to add the same product to the shopping cart more than once. | ||||
11. | Checkout Acceleration | Enable or disable the accelerated checkout. | --- | enabled/disabled | ||
12. | Confirmation of Terms and Conditions | Enable or disable Terms and Condition confirmation to place an order. | --- | enabled/disabled | ||
13. | Auto Email Opt-In | Defines whether specific customer options are pre-selected or not (e.g., newsletter sign-up). | --- | enabled/disabled | ||
14. | Enable Sending as Email | Enable or disable the feature to share a shopping cart snapshot via e-mail. | --- | enabled/disabled | ||
15. | Save Shopping Cart as PDF | Enable or disable the feature to save a shopping cart snapshot as PDF file. | --- | enabled/disabled |

The following lists contain important source code artifacts for basket handling.

Cartridge | Pipeline Name | Description | Start Nodes | Extension Points |
|---|---|---|---|---|
bc_orderprocess | ProcessBasket | Functions for basic basket handling | AddProduct .... | AddedItemToBasket |

Below you can find a partial list of pipelets relevant for basket handling. For more details see the pipelet API documentation.

Cartridge | Pipelet Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
bts | GetBasket | Retrieves basket for the given domain (e.g., PrimeTech-PrimeTechSpecials / PrimeTech-PrimeTechSpecials-Anonymous) and user |
bc_orderprocess | CreateBasket | Creates the basket for the given domain and user and returns the relating BasketBO |
bc_orderprocess | MoveBasketToBasketHistory | Moves the given basket to the basket history |
bc_foundation | VerifyQuantity | Converts the given string into a |
bc_orderprocess | AddProduct | Adds a single product with the given quantity to the given basket |
bc_orderprocess | RemoveLineItem | Removes the single line item |
bc_orderprocess | GetBasketByID | Retrieves |
sld_ch_b2c_base | GetBasketProductLineItemBO | Retrieves |
bc_orderprocess | AddWarranty | Adds a |
bc_orderprocess | RemoveWarranty | Removes a warranty from the given |

Below you can find the list of Java classes and interfaces relevant for gifting. For more details see the Java API documentation.

Cartridge | Package and Class | Description |
|---|---|---|
core | com.intershop.beehive.core.capi.profile.Address | The persistent object for addresses |
bts | com.intershop.beehive.bts.capi.orderprocess.basket.Basket | The persistent object representing a basket |
bts | com.intershop.beehive.bts.capi.orderprocess.ProductLineItem | The persistent object representing a product line item |
bts | com.intershop.beehive.bts.capi.orderprocess.ServiceLineItem | The persistent object representing a service line item |
bts | com.intershop.beehive.bts.capi.orderprocess.basket.BasketMgr | Manager for basket handling |
bc_basket | com.intershop.component.basket.capi.BasketBO | The business object representing a basket |
bc_basket | com.intershop.component.basket.capi.BasketProductLineItemBO | The business object representing a product line item |
bc_warranty | com.intershop.component.warranty.capi.BasketWarrantyLineItemBO | The business object representing a warranty line item |

Cartridge | Pipeline Name | Description | Start Nodes | Extension Points |
|---|---|---|---|---|
bc_orderprocess | ProcessBasketCalculation | Functions for calculation of an entire basket | Start |

Pipelet relevant for basket calculation. For more details see the pipelet API documentation.

Cartridge | Pipeline Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
bts | CalculateLineItemCtnrRuleBased | Performs a basket calculation using a given calculation rule set |

See also [Concept - Address Check Framework](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1777339455/Concept+-+Address+Check+Framework).

Pipeline relevant for address handling. For more details see the pipeline API documentation.

Cartridge | Pipeline Name | Description | Start Nodes | Extension Points |
|---|---|---|---|---|
bc_orderprocess | ProcessCheckoutAddresses | Functions to add/change/delete addresses | CheckDefaultSettings | AddressToBeCreated-AddressCreating |

Below you can find a list of pipelets relevant for address handling. For more details see the pipelet API documentation.

Cartridge | Pipeline Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
bc_address_check | ValidateAddressBO | The pipelet validates the provided address |
bts | UpdateStaticAddress | Updates the fields of a static address |
bc_giftcard | UpdateShipToAddress | Updates the ship-to address of all items in the basket excluding gift cards |
bc_requisition | UpdateRequisitionAddresses | Updates invoice and ship-to address of a basket |
sld_ch_b2c_base | SetSplitShipToAddress | Sets a ship-to address ID for the given BasketProductLineItemSplitInfo |
bc_address | UpdateAddressBO | Updates an address business object |
bc_customer | UpdateCustomerBOPreferredAddresses | Updates the preferred ship-to address and preferred invoice address of the customer |
bc_user | UpdateUserBOPreferredAddresses | Updates the preferred ship-to address and preferred invoice address of the user |

Below you can find the list of Java classes and interfaces relevant for address handling. For more details see the Java API documentation.

Cartridge | Package and Class | Description |
|---|---|---|
core | com.intershop.beehive.core.capi.profile.Address | The persistent object for addresses |
bc_address | com.intershop.component.address.capi.AddressBO | The business object for addresses |

Please see: [Concept - Shipping (valid to 7.7)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1773241676/Concept+-+Shipping+valid+to+7.7) / [ Cookbook - Shipping](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1812642996/Cookbook+-+Shipping+valid+to+7.8).

Pipeline relevant for shipping. For more details see the pipeline API documentation.

Cartridge | Pipeline Name | Description | Start Nodes | Extension Points |
|---|---|---|---|---|
bc_orderprocess | ProcessShipping | Handle shipping settings of the basket | DefaultSettings | ProcessShipping-StartHook |

Below you can find a list of pipelets relevant for inventory handling. For more details see the pipelet API documentation.

Cartridge | Pipeline Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
sld_ch_b2c_app | VerifyShippingMethods | Verifies whether the shipping methods are set correctly on the given BasketBO |
bc_shipping | VerifyShippingRestrictions | Used to display the shipping restriction error message |
bc_shipping | SetDefaultShippingMethod | Sets all product line items of the provided basket to their default shipping method |

Below you can find the list of Java classes and interfaces relevant for shipping. For more details see the Java API documentation.

Cartridge | Package and Class | Description |
|---|---|---|
bc_shipping_data | com.intershop.component.shipping_data.capi.shippingmethod | The persistent object for shipping methods |
| bc_basket | com.intershop.sellside.appbase.b2c.capi.shipping.BasketShippingBucketBO | A group of multiple product line item objects that have the same shipping method and shipping address |
sld_ch_b2c_base | com.intershop.sellside.appbase.b2c.capi.shipping.BasketShippingMethodSelectionBucketBO | The product line items grouped by shipping address and list of possible shipping methods. It is used to display it this way to the customer for easier shipping method selection |
sld_ch_b2c_base | com.intershop.sellside.appbase.b2c.capi.shipping.EligibleShippingMethodBO | Represents a shipping method eligible to ship the specified items to the specified destination |
bc_basket | com.intershop.sellside.appbase.b2c.capi.basket.BasketBOShippingBucketExtension | Extension of the basket to access shipping bucket functionality |
bc_basket | com.intershop.sellside.appbase.b2c.capi.basket.BasketBOShippingMethodExtension | Extension of the basket to access shipping method-related functionality |
sld_ch_b2c_base | UpdatePackSlipMessage | Updates/Creates the pack slip message at the provided shipping bucket |

Please see: [Concept - Gifting](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1759445220/Concept+-+Gifting) / [Cookbook - Gifting](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1759445905/Cookbook+-+Gifting)

Pipeline relevant for gifting. For more details see the pipeline API documentation.

Cartridge | Pipeline Name | Description | Start Nodes | Extension Points |
|---|---|---|---|---|
bc_orderprocess | ProcessCheckoutGifting | Gift wrap and gift message handling | GetAllGiftMessages |

Below you can find a list of pipelets relevant for inventory handling. For more details see the pipelet API documentation.

| Cartridge | Pipeline Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
sld_ch_b2c_base | CreateGiftMessageOption | Creates a GiftMessageOption for the provided ProductLineItem |
sld_ch_b2c_base | CreateGiftWrapOption | Creates a GiftWrapOption for the provided ProductLineItem |
sld_ch_b2c_base | UpdateGiftMessageOption | Updates the assigned GiftMessage of a GiftMessageOption |
sld_ch_b2c_base | UpdateGiftWrapOption | Updates the assigned GiftWrap of a GiftWrapOption |
sld_ch_b2c_base | RemoveGiftWrapOption | Removes the GiftWrapOption from a ProductLineItem |
sld_ch_b2c_base | RemoveGiftMessageOption | Removes the GiftMessageOption from a ProductLineItem |
sld_ch_b2c_base | SetSplitGiftOptionMarker | Sets a GiftOptionMarker for the given OrderProductLineItemSplitInfo |

Below you can find the list of Java classes and interfaces relevant for gifting. For more details see the Java API documentation.

Cartridge | Package and Class | Description |
|---|---|---|
bc_basket | com.intershop.component.basket.capi.BasketProductLineItemBO | The basket line item business object |
bc_basket | com.intershop.component.basket.capi.BasketProductLineItemSplitInfo | Holds the information of the parameters set during the splitting of the ProductLineItemBO in a transient way This is needed if the quantity of a product line item is greater than one, so that the gift options can be set separately per item. |
sld_ch_b2c_base | com.intershop.sellside.appbase.b2c.capi.basket.BasketBOGiftingExtension | This extension adds gifting-related functionality to the basket |
bc_basket | com.intershop.component.basket.capi.BasketProductLineItemBOGiftingExtension | This extension adds gifting-related functionality to the product line item |
| bc_basket | com.intershop.component.basket.capi.BasketGiftWrapLineItemBO | Represents a gift wrap in the basket |
bc_basket | com.intershop.component.basket.capi.BasketGiftMessageLineItemBO | Represents a gift message in the basket |

Please see also: [Concept - Payment Framework](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1811743804/Concept+-+Payment+Framework) / [Cookbook - Payment (valid to 7.7)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1811743798/Cookbook+-+Payment+valid+to+7.7).

Below you can find a list of pipelines relevant for payment. For more details see the pipeline API documentation.

Cartridge | Pipeline Name | Description | Start Nodes | Extension Points |
|---|---|---|---|---|
bc_orderprocess | ProcessCheckoutPayment | The main logic around payment handling during checkout | CreatePIIFromRedirectByUser | |
bc_payment | ProcessPayment | Payment and Payment Instrument handling | Authorize |

Below you can find the list of Java classes and interfaces relevant for payment. For more details see the Java API documentation.

Cartridge | Package and Class | Description |
|---|---|---|
bc_payment | com.intershop.component.payment.capi.PaymentInstrumentBO | Information about the payment instrument, e.g., credit card number. |
bc_payment | com.intershop.component.payment.capi.PaymentServiceBO | A service to process a specific payment method, e.g., credit card payment. |
bc_payment | com.intershop.component.payment.capi.PaymentCostBO | Costs for the payment transaction. |
bc_payment | com.intershop.component.payment.capi.PaymentTransactionBO | The payment transaction. |
bc_payment | com.intershop.component.payment.capi.PaymentBO | Information about a payment, e.g., for credit card payment for an order. |

Please see also: [Overview - Promotions](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1758625823/Overview+-+Promotions) / [Cookbook - Promotions (valid to 7.7)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1784875789/Cookbook+-+Promotions+valid+to+7.7).

Below you can find a list of pipelines relevant for promotions. For more details see the pipeline API documentation.

Cartridge | Pipeline Name | Description | Start Nodes | Extension Points |
|---|---|---|---|---|
bc_marketing | ProcessPromotion | Promotion handling | GetPromotionDomainByOrganization | |
bc_orderprocess | ProcessPromotionBudget | Handles promotion budgets | CreateAccountTransaction | |
bc_orderprocess | ProcessBasketPromotion | Inherits all from | GetApplicablePromotionsFromBasket |

Below you can find the list of Java classes and interfaces relevant for promotions. For more details see the Java API documentation.

Cartridge | Package and Class | Description |
|---|---|---|
bc_promotion | com.intershop.component.promotion.capi.PromotionBO | The business object represents a promotion. |
bc_promotion | com.intershop.component.promotion.capi.RebateBO | Holds information about promotion rebates |
bc_promotion | com.intershop.component.promotion.capi.AppliedRebateBO | Represents an applied rebate in a basket or an order It allows to access the values that are stored in the computed items and gives access to the related promotion and rebate object as long as it exists. |
bc_marketing | com.intershop.component.marketing.capi.promotion.PromotionBOCampaignExtension | This extension covers all campaign-related functionality of the promotion business object. |

Please see also: [Concept - Inventory](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1766071820/Concept+-+Inventory) / [Cookbook - Inventory](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1773253534/Cookbook+-+Inventory).

Pipeline relevant for inventory handling. For more details see the pipeline API documentation.

Cartridge | Pipeline Name | Description | Start Nodes | Extension Points |
|---|---|---|---|---|
bc_orderprocess | ProcessBasket | Main logic around the cart. | CheckInventory |

Below you can find a list of pipelets relevant for inventory handling. For more details see the pipelet API documentation.

Cartridge | Pipelet Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
bc_orderprocess | AdjustBasketByInventoryStatus | Get the adjusted quantities according to the given inventory status. |
bc_orderprocess | BookBasketInventory | Takes a basket, and books all items in it against the inventory. |
bc_orderprocess | CheckBasketInventory | Checks the inventory for the content of the basket. |
bc_orderprocess | RollbackBasketInventoryBooking | Rollback of the inventory bookings. |
bts | GetBookingStatusAdjustedQuantities | This pipelet uses a BookingStatus and puts the following in the pipeline dictionary: a list of products that could not be booked at all, a list of product line items that were only partially booked, the list of booked quantities and a flag saying if the basket is orderable or not. |

Below you can find the list of Java classes and interfaces relevant for promotions. For more details see the Java API documentation.

Cartridge | Package and Class | Description |
|---|---|---|
xcs | com.intershop.beehive.xcs.capi.inventory.InventoryService | The interface for all inventory service implementations. |
xcs | com.intershop.beehive.xcs.capi.inventory.InventoryStatus | Contains the current inventory state for a product. |
xcs | com.intershop.beehive.xcs.capi.inventory.BookingStatus | BookingStatus is used as return value when booking inventory. |

Cartridge | Pipeline Name | Description | Start Nodes | Extension Points |
|---|---|---|---|---|
bc_orderprocess | ProcessOrders | Creates an order from a given basket | CreateOrder | OrderCreated |

Below you can find a list of Pipelets relevant for basket calculation. For more details see the pipelet API documentation.

Cartridge | Pipeline Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
bc_requisition | CreateOrdersFromBasket2 | Creates one order from the given basket Note Order splitting and multiple order functionality is no longer supported. |
bts | AssignOrderDocumentNos | Creates one order from the given basket |
bts | UpdateOrderStatus | Updates the order status |
bc_requisition | UpdateLineItemStatus | Updates the line item status |

Cartridge | Package and Class | Description |
|---|---|---|
bc_order | com.intershop.component.order.capi.OrderBORepository | The business object repository for orders |
bc_order | com.intershop.component.order.capi.OrderBO | Business object representing an order |
bc_order | com.intershop.component.order.capi.extension.OrderBOCompanyCustomerExtension | Offers methods for retrieval of customer-related data set at the order |
bc_order | com.intershop.component.order.capi.extension.OrderBOAppliedRebateExtension<T> | Offers methods for retrieval of promotions and promotional discounts applied to the order |
sld_ch_b2c_base | com.intershop.sellside.appbase.b2c.capi.order.OrderBOGiftingExtension | Offers methods for retrieval of shipping buckets of the order |
sld_ch_b2c_base | com.intershop.sellside.appbase.b2c.capi.order.OrderBOLineItemExtension | Offers methods for retrieval of the order's line items |
bc_payment | com.intershop.component.payment.capi.OrderBOPaymentExtension<T> | Offers methods for retrieval of payment methods applied to the order |
bc_payment | com.intershop.component.payment.capi.PaymentInstrumentBO | Business object representing a payment instrument info set at the order |
bc_payment | com.intershop.component.payment.capi.PaymentTransactionBO | Business object representing a payment transaction created as result of the payment process(es) during the checkout |
bc_payment | com.intershop.component.payment.capi.PaymentCostBO | Business object representing costs charged for a payment transaction |
bc_order | com.intershop.component.order.capi.extension.OrderBOShippingBucketExtension<T> | Offers methods for retrieval of shipping buckets of the order |
bc_order | com.intershop.component.order.capi.OrderProductLineItemBO | Business object representing a (product) line item of the order |
bc_order | com.intershop.component.order.capi.extension.OrderWarrantyLineItemBO | Business object representing a warranty assigned to a (product) line item of an order |
bc_order | com.intershop.component.order.capi.OrderGiftMessageLineItemBO | Business object representing a gift message assigned to a (product) line item of an order |
bc_order | com.intershop.component.order.capi.OrderGiftWrapLineItemBO | Business object representing a gift wrap assigned to a (product) line item of an order |
bc_order | com.intershop.component.order.capi.extension.OrderProductLineItemBOAppliedRebateExtension<T> | Offers methods for retrieval of promotions and promotional discounts applied to the (product) line item |
bc_order | com.intershop.component.order.capi.extension.OrderProductLineItemBOGiftingExtension<T> | Offers method(s) for retrieval of gift options (messages/wraps) set at the (product) line item |
sld_ch_b2c_base | com.intershop.sellside.appbase.b2c.capi.order.OrderProductLineItemBOShippingExtension | Offers method(s) for retrieval of the shipping method set at the (product) line item |
bc_order | com.intershop.component.order.capi.extension.OrderProductLineItemBOWarrantyExtension<T> | Offers method(s) for retrieval of a warranty set at the (product) line item |
bc_order | com.intershop.component.order.capi.OrderShippingBucketBO | Business object representing a shipping bucket of the order |
bc_order | com.intershop.component.order.capi.OrderShippingMethodBO | Business object representing a shipping method set at an order shipping bucket |
bc_order | com.intershop.component.order.capi.OrderPackSlipMessageLineItemBO | Offers method(s) for retrieval of a pack slip message set at a shipping bucket |

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.