---
id: '2aa78a9fafc032a5d5aac4380510c6d6'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/29G647'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:40:41.106685+00:00'
---
`OrderMergeController`

was removed. Be sure to remove the job from your Make sure that both *database* and *IOM-images* are set to the same time zone. *IOM-images* now always use the timezone "Etc/UTC". Before starting the migration process, the timezone for IOM *database-user* has to be changed, too.

`ALTER USER "<user-name>" set TimeZone='Etc/UTC';`


Superuser rights are required to make this change.

The following properties that were available in 2.17 are moved to Helm parameters now. Please check the appropriate usage at your installation.

| IOM 2.17 | IOM 3.0 |
|---|---|
| JBOSS_JAVA_OPTS | jboss.javaOpts |
| is.oms.db.hostlist | oms.db.hostlist |
| is.oms.db.name | oms.db.name |
| is.oms.db.user | oms.db.user |
| is.oms.db.pass | oms.db.passwd |
| is.oms.smtp.host | oms.smtp.host |
| is.oms.smtp.port | oms.smtp.port |
| is.oms.smtp.user | oms.smtp.user |
| is.oms.smtp.pass | oms.smtp.passwd |
| is.oms.mail.resources.base.url | oms.mailResourcesBaseUrl |
| is.oms.jboss.base.url | oms.publicUrl |
| is.oms.jwt.secret | oms.jwtSecret |

The following properties from `cluster.properties`

were removed since their values are fixed now:

The following properties from `installation.properties`

were removed since their values are fixed now:

The following property file `watchdog.properties`

was removed as is no longer used.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.