---
id: '2b091758a51bf477370ead49986cf773'
title: 'Managing Sorting Attributes of Standard Catalogs'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/322H91'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:36.139970+00:00'
---
# Managing Sorting Attributes of Standard Catalogs

[Managing Sorting Preferences](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/task_managing_sorting_preferences.html). This default can be overwritten at catalog level or category level by declaring a sorting attribute for the entire catalog or a specific catalog category.

Note:

For an overview of the general sorting behavior, see

[Product and Sub-Category Sorting](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/concept_product_and_sub-category_sorting.html#con_cat_sort).To manage sorting attributes at catalog level or category level:

-
Navigate to the catalog level or category level at which you want to work.
Select the intended management context from the context selection box, then select Catalogs | Catalogs. Then click the catalog and category names until you reach the intended category level.
-
Click the icon in the row of the catalog or category you intend to edit.
Catalogs or categories shared from a parent management context cannot be edited but only viewed (). This displays the General tab of the catalog/category detail page with the Sorting section at the bottom.
- Select the Custom radio button to overwrite the general sorting preference.
-
Select a standard sorting attribute or provide the name of a different attribute as custom sorting attribute.
Select the option None in case you want to invalidate the general sorting preference for a catalog category, without defining an explicit sorting. The standard sorting attributes include Product Name, Product ID, List Price and Manufacturer Name.
-
Select the sorting order.
Available options are: descending or ascending.
- Click Apply to start the assignment process.

Note:

Sorting attributes declared for a catalog apply to all levels of this catalog, including the sub-categories. Sorting attributes declared at category level, however, apply only to products at this particular level. They are not inherited by sub-categories.