---
id: '2b7ed811ee1bcb3bfb28ba564ec2123b'
title: 'Concept - Intershop PWA'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/309R46'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:42.340803+00:00'
---
The PWA supports reCAPTCHA V2 as well as reCAPTCHA V3.

Which CAPTCHA version is used depends on which CAPTCHA service is created and running in the ICM.

The pure CAPTCHA functionality is implemented as a PWA extension and can be found in the *extensions* folder.

There are two basic CAPTCHA components (one for each CAPTCHA version) and a lazy CAPTCHA component that decides which one to use.

The PWA uses the [Angular Formly framework](https://formly.dev/docs/guide/getting-started) to process web forms, see also [The Formly Guide](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/g/intershop/intershop-pwa/blob/develop/docs/guides/formly.md).

This framework allows you to automatically generate your forms using predefined form field types.

A special type `ish-captcha-field`

has been implemented to support the CAPTCHA functionality.

You can define a field of this type in any *Formly* form, so that this form is validated according to CAPTCHA.

The following class diagram shows the major classes of the CAPTCHA workflow that are relevant for most use cases:

`ish-captcha-field`

is available for the reCAPTCHA functionality.There is a special CAPTCHA field type that makes it very easy to protect any web form using the CAPTCHA functionality.

The following example shows how to add a CAPTCHA field of type `ish-captcha-field`

to any Formly form.

The component's TypeScript file looks like this:

```
export class ExamplePageComponent implements OnInit {
...
fields: FormlyFieldConfig[];
exampleFormGroup = new UntypedFormGroup({});
...
ngOnInit() {
...
this.fields = [
...
{
type: 'ish-captcha-field',
props: {
topic: 'forgotPassword',
},
},
];
}
...
}
```

The `ish-captcha-field`

type is registered in the *src.app.shared.formly.types. types.module.ts*.

The following table shows the mapping between existing PWA CAPTCHA topic names and the CAPTCHA channel preferences in the ICM:

CaptchaTopic |
ICM Settings |
|---|---|
| contactUs | Contact Us |
| emailShoppingCart | E-mail Shopping Cart |
| forgotPassword | Forgot password |
| redemptionOfGiftCardsAndCertificates | Redemption of Gift Cards & Certificates |
| register | Registration |

❗ The topic value is also appended to the header of the request triggered by submitting the web form. This is necessary to support the

[actions concept of Google reCAPTCHA v3].

As you can see in the high-level overview, there are components that represent the actual CAPTCHA functionality.

Depending on the version used, these components implement either widgets provided by Google or the reCAPTCHA token functionality.

The [ng-recaptcha](https://github.com/DethAriel/ng-recaptcha) library was used for the implementation.

To add the widgets provided by Google, you need to import the **ReCAPTCHAModule** of the *ng-recaptcha* library.

Furthermore, *captcha site key* must be set to initialize the widget.

This site key is a required option on the reCAPTCHA HTML element.

It is also necessary to store the token determined by the CAPTCHA event as a form control parameter.

This allows the response to be validated and handled accordingly.

In case of an error, an error message is displayed; in case of success, the entire form is processed further.

To implement a callback function to handle the token, you need to import the **RecaptchaV3Module** of the *ng-recaptcha* library.

This component will trigger a callback every two minutes to retrieve a current reCAPTCHA token.

This token is then appended to the request triggered by the submitted form.

The ICM backend will then validate the token.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.