---
id: '2c100c052629f3db796af9ac63dd03d7'
title: 'Support Article'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/29657S'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:40:21.733396+00:00'
---
This article explains how to use the standard Intershop CMS to create a simple blog functionality.

To create a new blog layout page template, perform the following steps:

Create a *New Content Page*.

Note

Do not assign a page variant yet. A special *Page Template* for this will be created in the next steps.

Click *New* in the *Content* slot to assign a header and a footer component to the corresponding slots and create a *New Component Template* for the blog entry navigation.

Use the *Static Content Page Component* as template.

Note

Select your recently created blog page as *Navigation Root* and enable the* Show Navigation* checkbox.

This configures the* Component Template.*

Your *Page Template* is now prepared. You can now use it as template for the page variants that you want to use as entries for your blog.

A page variant can be created by using the *Blog Layout Page Template.* To do so, perform the following steps:

You can create new blog entries by creating *Sub Pages* for your blog page. To do so, perform the following steps:

Create a new *Page* of type *Content Page* and make sure that it uses your *Blog Page* as parent.

Note

Now you just need to assign a *Page Variant* based on the *Blog Layout* *Page Template* to every blog entry. Your Entries will be listed in the navigation menu and your blog should look like this:

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.