---
id: '2c3f30a8b1878f07fd6839cd18fc5824'
title: 'Managing Line Items and Products'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/412D35'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:30:34.103883+00:00'
---
# Managing Line Items and Products

Managing line items includes adding new products, modifying a line item's quantity, or removing a line item.

Note:

If there is no existing cart, a new one will be created automatically.

## Searching Products

To search for a product to be added to a cart:

-
Start (if not already running) a contact session, see
[Starting a Contact Session](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iap/master/cec_en/cec/contact_sessions/task_starting_a_contact_session.html). - Switch to the Quick order tab.
-
Click Search product.
This opens the product search dialog.
-
Specify a product product ID or name and click the
*Search*icon ().This performs a full-text search with the given parameter and displays the results. -
Click the
*Add to Cart*icon ().This adds the desired product to the cart and closes the search dialog.

## Adding a Product

To add a new product (with a known product ID) to a cart:

Tip:

Use Intershop Commerce Management to retrieve the product ID. Note that it
is called "ID" in Intershop Commerce Management.

Note:

Currently, products with the freight class

*Digital Delivery*and gift cards cannot be ordered via Intershop Customer Engagement Center. Use[Storefront Impersonation](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iap/master/cec_en/cec/contact_sessions/task_storefront_impersonation.html)instead.-
Start (if not already running) a contact session, see
[Starting a Contact Session](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iap/master/cec_en/cec/contact_sessions/task_starting_a_contact_session.html). - Switch to the Quick order tab.
-
In the
*Enter product ID*field, specify the product ID of the new product and press ENTER or click the*Add to Cart*icon ().This adds the desired product immediately and updates the cart.

## Modifying a Line Item's Quantity

To modify the quantity of a line item:

-
Start (if not already running) a contact session, see
[Starting a Contact Session](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iap/master/cec_en/cec/contact_sessions/task_starting_a_contact_session.html). - Switch to the Quick order tab.
-
Select the quantity to be modified, specify the new value, and press ENTER.
Tip:You can use the mouse pointer or TAB to select the intended quantity.This modifies the quantity and updates the cart immediately.

## Removing a Line Item

To remove a line item from the cart:

-
Start (if not already running) a contact session, see
[Starting a Contact Session](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iap/master/cec_en/cec/contact_sessions/task_starting_a_contact_session.html). - Switch to the Quick order tab.
-
Click the
*Delete*icon () in the row of the line item to be removed.This removes the line item and updates the cart immediately.