---
id: '2cfc921f14de0349a453aecea4645d82'
title: 'Importing Intershop Commerce Management Users (CSV)'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/327F25'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:45.921263+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/327F25

# Importing Intershop Commerce Management Users (CSV)

To import user data in CSV format:
-
In the navigation bar, select Organization | Import & Export.
This displays the User Import & Export manager.

-
Upload the file to be imported.
-
In the Users (CSV) row, click Import.
A file format dialog and a list of files that can be imported are displayed.

-
Specify the file details.
Specify the mapping template to use, the field delimiter, the format line number and, if applicable, the custom format line.

-
Select file to import, then click Next.
The import file is now validated. When successful, the number of users is displayed. In case of errors, error messages are generated. You can also download the log file.

-
Select the import mode.
The available import modes include OMIT, IGNORE, UPDATE, REPLACE, DELETE, and INITIAL. For import mode details, see

[Standard Import Modes](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/concept_catalog_import_and_export.html#con_cat_impex_modes).

-
Click Import.
The import process is started immediately. The Import & Export Status dialog is displayed.


## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.