---
id: '2cfc209545ead6275fbeed5884490247'
title: 'Reference - Intershop Commerce Platform'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3141Z4'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:29:38.817321+00:00'
---
This FAQ answers common questions about deploying and operating the Intershop Commerce Platform. It covers topics like infrastructure, security, and questions regarding specific apps to help users configure and maintain their environments.

By default the platform contains two pre-production environments:

INT - this environment is supposed to hold the current state of development. Making sure all feature work together as intended.

UAT - this environment is supposed as the quality gate for production. Release candidates should be tested here with business department before deploying to PROD. This environment is not necessary intended to be able to cope with the full product set from PROD.

Additional environments can be obtained as add-on products.

The following sections describe how to set up and use a transfer server for ICM 11+.

**Note**

Intershop provides a transfer server intended for data/file exchanges, but not permanent storage.

The latter must be provided by the customer.

The following transfer servers currently exist:

`ops-ca-trans01.westeurope.cloudapp.azure.com`

(to be replaced)

`ops-ca-trans02.westeurope.cloudapp.azure.com`


`ops-ca-dev-us-trans01.centralus.cloudapp.azure.com`


`ops-ca-prd-euwz2-trans01.westeurope.cloudapp.azure.com`


`ops-ca-dev-euwz2-trans01.westeurope.cloudapp.azure.com`


The correct server name(s) are documented on the customer system confluence page for each customer (under “Transfer server (SFTP)”).

In the future, we will separate the transfer server in two instance, one for PRD and one for DEV (NonPRD) environments. This is already in place for ops-ca-**prd**-euwz2-trans01 and ops-ca-**dev**-euwz2-trans01.

To use these transfer servers for ICM 11+, the implementation partners (DEV) must specify the necessary user access details on the customer system Confluence page.

This involves determining which users can access specific SFTP user spaces and providing the corresponding public SSH keys.

The following standard SFTP user spaces are available (replace `CSTMR`

with the appropriate system ID of the customer):

`icm_CSTMR_int`


`icm_CSTMR_uat`


`icm_CSTMR_prd`


`ish_dev_dumps_CSTMR`


**Note**

User spaces are not created automatically. If any are missing, submit a ticket in the [Customer Service Portal](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/s) and document the needed changes in the Transfer Server section of the customer system Confluence page.

Connections are established *only via SFTP* (no SSH/SCP).

Example:

$ sftp icm_CSTMR_int@ops-ca-trans01.westeurope.cloudapp.azure.com:/home Connected to ops-ca-trans01.westeurope.cloudapp.azure.com. Changing to: /home sftp> ls -l drwxr-xr-x 5 1001 1001 4096 Aug 29 2023 Demo sftp> ^D

The Intershop Cloud Operations team will roll out all keys to the related transfer server(s).

If an SFTP user is required for the transport framework (ICM jobs), we need to add SSH keys for the ICM appserver users within the ICM Pods.

**Note**

Starting with ICM 11, the Intershop Cloud Operations (OPS) team no longer creates these keys, as they have to be put into the ICM image.

ICM developers must generate the SSH keys themselves and place them in the site's file system within the Pods, and configure the transport framework accordingly to use these keys.

The keys should be created with OpenSSH, ex: `ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "intershop@CSTMR_INT"`


Typically, one key is required per environment: PRD (LV+ED), UAT (LV+ED) and INT LV+ED), resulting in three keys in total.

For example, for a customer (replace *CSTMR* with the appropriate CustomerID) keys could be deployed to `/intershop/sites/root/units/root/transportconfigs/`

.

Private keys must be stored in the ADO GIT project repository, for example within the cartridge `CSTMR_migrate/src/main/resources/resources/CSTMR_migrate/sites/root/units/root/transportconfigs/`

in files `prd_id.rsa`

(maybe protected with a passphrase).

Implementation partners must decide on the SSH key naming convention for UAT and INT shares, for example: `test`

.

Example:

intershop@icm-CSTMR-int-edit-icm-as-6d75675867-x66wj:/intershop $ ls -l /intershop/sites/root/units/root/transportconfigs/ -rwxrwxrwx 1 intershop intershop 1743 Mar 3 17:17 prd_id_rsa -rwxrwxrwx 1 intershop intershop 471 Mar 3 17:17 prd.pub -rwxrwxrwx 1 intershop intershop 1751 Mar 3 17:17 test_id_rsa -rwxrwxrwx 1 intershop intershop 473 Mar 3 17:17 test.pub

The path `/intershop/sites/root/units/root/transportconfigs/`

should be used in the transport framework configurations.

The implementation partner must submit the created SSH *public* (not private) keys via a ticket in the [Customer Service Portal](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/s), so the OPS team can deploy them to the transfer server(s).

The disk space on the transfer server is shared by several customers. To prevent disk space exhaustion, daily housekeeping is implemented:

Remove files from `ish_dev_dumps_*/home/`

after 30 days

Remove files from `*/home/`

after 90 days

To enable the import or export of data from an SFTP-based transfer server or service to the Intershop application server and vice versa:

Log in to the Intershop Organization Management as a user that has at least the access privilege *Transport Manager* assigned.

URL: *https://<my_domain>/INTERSHOP/web/BOS/SLDSystem*

Organization: Operations

From the left menu, select *Transport Configuration.*

Select a transport configuration from the list or create a new one (Type: SFTP).

Enter the following configuration details:

|
|
|
|---|---|---|
Remote Location | /home | Subdirectories can be created later if necessary. |
Authentication method | Key | |
User name | <user name>_int | The username depends on the environment. |
Pass phrase | The pass phrase is not used, but a required field when you use the web form, so it is necessary to type in anything. | |
Key File Path | /home/intershop/.ssh/id_rsa |

There is no automatic cleanup of exported .*bacpac *files on the FTP server. The implementation partner is responsible for their maintenance and cleanup.

The server-side time zone is set to UTC and cannot be changed. This ensures consistency for platform processes. Use application-specific options to adjust the time zone as needed (e.g., in the back office).

The Intershop Commerce Platform supports hosting and operation of custom microservices.

Since microservices are typically highly customized, costs depend on the required infrastructure resources and operational effort. Operational effort is influenced by factors such as the number of deployments, the number of incidents, etc.

Microservices are run in containers within a Kubernetes cluster. To prepare a detailed offer, a complete infrastructure sizing is required.

Services are exposed via Nginx. Each cluster has an external IP address and DNS names in the format:`<customer-system>-<environment>.platform.intershop.de`

.

Customers use C-NAME records to point their DNS to `xyz.platform.intershop.de`

. This setup allows us to move customer instances between clusters without service interruption.

If a customer wants to use a top-level domain for a service, such as `myshop.de`

, an A-NAME record must be used. Additional infrastructure can then be applied to provide a specific IP address for that name.

Currently, our clusters operate in a single zone. However, clusters can be configured to use multiple zones. This configuration might lead to a performance loss if the Azure SQL Managed Instance is located in a different zone.

ICM application server pods typically take approximately 60 seconds to start.

Scaling is managed either by implementation partners or the operations team. Deployment configurations include a `replicaCount`

value that can scale the system up or down. Each namespace has resource quotas that limit the number of pods.

The customer is responsible for (external) domains and related DNS configuration, for example, for PWA/ICM or any external (headless) storefront.

Therefore, the customer must provide corresponding SSL/TLS certificate(s) for each desired domain. This may include one certificate per ICM cluster or multiple certificates per ICM cluster if different channels are available under separate domains.

Generally, domain configuration should be done on a CNAME basis, whereas Intershop will provide the target domain name for corresponding environments and clusters.

Please consider that Intershop offers to set up an automatic *Let's Encrypt* certificate management process. For every domain, a free-of-charge, secure, and automated certificate renewal process will be established. This reduces effort on the customer and Intershop sides to replace the certificate every year and reduces possible manual mistakes during certificate replacement.

The requirement for this is an already-configured DNS (CNAME) record for the related domain pointing to the Intershop platform.

In the future, certificate renewals will occur every 47 days ([see here for details](https://www.ssl.com/article/preparing-for-47-day-ssl-tls-certificates)), which implies that we need to automate such configuration changes.

The WAF is an optional package and is not included by default.

The shared file system is fully backed up once per day. Databases managed by Azure SQL Managed Instance support point-in-time recovery.

Each customized application and environment has its own namespace (e.g. cstmr-icm-int, cstmr-pwa-int). These namespaces are protected using Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) policies. Access to databases (JDBC connection string) is provided via Kubernetes Secrets, which are also secured by RBAC and Service Account.

Yes, Azure SQL Managed Instances use transparent data encryption with system-managed encryption keys.

We use “managed identities” created within the Kubernetes cluster context. These identities have access to container registries and are used to provide Docker images for the cluster.

By default, Intershop Commerce Platform solutions hosted on Microsoft Azure are accessible on the Internet via a public IP address. To grant customer and partner clients or servers access to Azure, their public addresses are whitelisted. These connections, including those to storefronts, back-office sites, or provided APIs, use HTTPS and are therefore encrypted with TLS. TLS/SSL certificates are installed on the Azure web server tiers for this purpose. No additional VPN is required in this case.

A VPN is required when one of the clients or servers of partners or customers does not have direct access to the public Internet. Typical cases are: internal services such as mail (SMTP), ERP, or PIM. In this case, a VPN tunnel establishes a virtually direct and secured connection between the customer or partner and the Azure environment. Before configuring the VPN, precisely site-to-site (S2S) VPN, the parties involved (e.g., the customer and Intershop) must agree on the networks to be used, i.e., one or more private IP address range(s). These private IP ranges must not overlap with IPs or IP ranges already in use or planned for use. For this reason, it is important for Intershop to know as early as possible whether a VPN is required and which private network range(s) will be used.

Example: The customer has a mail service on a private network, without direct access to the public Internet. It should be used to send e-mails originating from an Azure-based Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) environment. Since the mail service lacks access to the public Internet and cannot connect directly, a VPN tunnel between Azure, where ICM is hosted, and the private network hosting the mail service is required.

To create a VPN tunnel between Azure and your (or your partners) on-premise infrastructure, Intershop requires the following information:

Public IP address of your device | This is the device on your (or your partners) side. Intershop needs this IP address to establish a connection. While configuring the VPN in Azure, Intershop will get a public IP address for the opposite side. Intershop will communicate the newly created public IP address as soon as possible. |
|---|---|
Address space of your local network(s) | Azure needs to know the private address ranges that correspond to your network. Each VPN gateway must know the local area networks of both sides, otherwise it will not work. Multiple subnets are possible, but must not overlap. |
Type of VPN
| Azure supports IKEv1 and IKEv2, but it depends on your device which type can be used. Intershop can check the requirements for you, which requires the type and firmware version of your device. For more information, refer to the compatibility list:
|
Shared Key (PSK) | Both VPN devices must use the same shared key. Intershop will create a key if the customer does not provide one. |

This document focuses on questions around operations. For more detailed questions about developing with the PWA, refer to [Support Article - PWA FAQ](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1925245223/Support+Article+-+PWA+FAQ+Deprecated).

The Intershop Commerce Platform offers hosting and operation of the PWA.

Since the PWA is typically highly customized, the costs depend on the infrastructure resources required and the operational effort. The latter depends on factors such as the number of deployments, number of incidents, etc.

The PWA is operated using containers in a Kubernetes cluster. To prepare a concrete offer, a sizing of the entire infrastructure is necessary.

The Intershop Commerce Platform partner can trigger deployments on UAT in self-service, see [Reference - Intershop Commerce Platform - Responsibilities Matrix](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1876581160/Reference+-+Intershop+Commerce+Platform+-+Responsibilities+Matrix).

Any other changes to the system that go beyond this must be agreed with Intershop in advance. The changes are likely to affect system behavior and must be implemented in the production environment. The goal is to have consistent system settings across all environments.

From ICM 11+, the mail service is handled directly in the ICM application. For details, see [Cookbook - Mail Service](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48767239119/Cookbook+-+Mail+Service).

For PRD environment we strongly recommend the mail service from the customer. For DEV environments there is a MailHog service in place and can be found in the related customer system page in Confluence. Here the pattern for the URLs:

**UAT**: https://mailhog-[SystemID]-uat.icm.[AzureShortRegionID].platform.intershop.com

**INT**: https://mailhog-[SystemID]-int.icm.[AzureShortRegionID].platform.intershop.com

No. There is no special page or maintenance mode that can be enabled in ICM 11+ Web Adapter containers. There will be no Web Adapter in new ICM releases in the near future.

With the transition from a VM-based to a Kubernetes-based infrastructure, log files are now accessible through our monitoring service, *New Relic*. Access to the monitoring will be handled by the user managment process. Developers need such access by default, because of this access should be requested by the initial user request, while customer contacts can request access if needed.

Each customer platform system has its own dedicated New Relic account. Within this account, you will find a log section that allows you to filter log data as needed.

This job is used to sync ICM environments, for example, UAT and INT. The sync is only done from Live to Live or Edit to Edit, but not from Live to Edit. The sync only takes place from higher to lower environments (for example, from PROD to PRE).

By default, recovery is limited to a 7-day retention period, regardless of the backup schedule (weekly backup/daily backup/concrete backup). An extension is possible, but increases the costs. The maximum is 30 days.

The backup process follows the standard procedures for Azure-managed databases and remains outside the control of Intershop.

There is no automatic cleanup of exported .*bacpac *files on the FTP server. The implementation partner is responsible for their maintenance and cleanup.

Pseudonymization is only done from PRD to a lower environment. Test users might be excluded. These need to be provided by partners and customers.

Data is replaced by random data, which can cause confusion in some corner cases.

In some cases, critical/blocking issues identified after the environment has been upgraded and went operational may require a rollback after the maintenance window.

Therefore, create a service desk ticket. If a database change happened, the old database will be restored within a full rollback.

This may be associated with data loss.

This question refers to performing an ICM DB MSSQL PointInTime Restore with the following parameters:

RESTORE_TIME=NOW

RESTORE_SOURCE=prod-live

RESTART_CLUSTER_AFTER_RESTORE=false

In this case, Restore should not affect the production system, since the target is usually UAT or INT. However, Intershop recommends to perform the recovery at a time when traffic is low.

Whether DBMigrate is taking too much time can be checked in the lower environment. If this is the case, DBMigrate can be split or switched to DBPrepare (recommended).

Currently Intershop does not provide a reference SQL script for a reverse DBMigrate.

Please create a service desk ticket and we will provide you with a quote.

Yes, a partner can provide a custom `robots.txt`

file for the Intershop Commerce Platform Web Adapter (ICM-WA) using the Kustomize functionality. This allows for environment-specific configurations without altering the base Helm chart.

For detailed instructions and examples, please refer to the Intershop Helm charts documentation: [ConfigMapMounts Kustomize](https://github.com/intershop/helm-charts/blob/main/charts/icm/docs/configmapmounts-kustomize.asciidoc).

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.