---
id: '2d15f2809a2803f45213272f12778664'
title: 'Store Management'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32835U'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:21.634468+00:00'
---
# Store Management

Note:

The tasks described in this section are performed in the context of a sales channel.

## Viewing Stores

-
Select the channel from the context selection box.
This opens the navigation bar of the channel.
-
In the navigation bar, select Stores.
This displays the overview page.
-
Select Stores.
This displays a list view of all stores defined for the channel.

## Creating a Store

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Stores | Stores.
This displays a list view of all stores defined for the channel.
-
Click New.
The General tab of the Store detail view is displayed.
-
Specify the mandatory information.
Mandatory information includes store name, store ID, address, ZIP/postal code, city, country and, if necessary, state/province. Select the Active check box to activate the store.
-
Click Apply.
This creates the store, and the Attributes tab becomes active.
-
Optionally, define attributes as required, then click Add.
Clicking Back to List returns you to the store list.

## Editing a Store

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Stores | Stores.
This displays a list view of all stores defined for the channel.
-
Click the name of the store you intend to edit.
The General tab of the Store detail view is displayed.
-
Edit the information as required.
On the Attributes tab, you can manage custom store attributes.
-
Click Apply to save your settings.
Otherwise, click Reset to discard your changes.

## Deleting a Store

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Stores | Stores.
This displays a list view of all stores defined for the channel.
- Select the checkbox for the store to be deleted.
-
Click Delete, and confirm the operation.
This removes the selected store from the sales channel.