---
id: '2e3d57d1dbbc01d74142b1645222844f'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/23Y286'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:52.382488+00:00'
---
This document introduces the concept of warranties as it exists in Intershop 7:

The next figure shows the warranty classification together with a few similar classifications.

For a product to become a warranty, it has to be assigned to the "ES_Warranty_Dependent" classification category.

A warranty can only be bought together with another product.

A warranty can be assigned to products using product links. To this end, there is a 'Warranty' link type.

A warranty can only be assigned to a product, which is not a warranty itself.

Intershop supports different calculation models for warranty prices. Currently, three calculation models are available:

It is possible to extend the warranty pricing with new calculation models.

Price providers are used for the warranty price calculation. There is a different provider for each of the supported calculation models. The shop manager selects from the available calculation models for a warranty when adding a price to a warranty.

Each price provider is responsible for

Note

Starting with Intershop 7.4 we strongly recommend to use the WarrantyBOPricingExtension for price handling. For example: `warrantyBO.getExtension("Pricing").getPrice(String priceType, Currency currency)`

.

Intershop supports different calculation models for warranty prices. Currently, three calculation models are available:

It is possible to extend the warranty pricing with new calculation models.

Price providers are used for the warranty price calculation. There is a different provider for each of the supported calculation models. The shop manager selects from the available calculation models for a warranty when adding a price to a warranty.

Each price provider is responsible for

Note

Starting with Intershop 7.4 we strongly recommend to use the WarrantyBOPricingExtension for price handling. For example: `warrantyBO.getExtension("Pricing").getPrice(String priceType, Currency currency)`

.

Warranty detail information consists of specific information that needs to be shown in the web store. In addition to the regular product information, the following data can also be specified as classification attributes for a warranty when it is assigned to the "ES_Warranty_Dependent" classification category:

If a product is added to the basket together with a warranty, the product becomes a root product line item (PLI). For the dependent warranty, there are added a dependent service line item (SLI) with no cost and a dependent PLI for the warranty product. The dependent SLIs and PLIs are automatically removed from the basket when the root PLI is removed.

If a user adds a product together with a warranty to the basket, both the product itself and the selected dependent warranty are added.

If a user adds another product of the same type with a dependent warranty to the basket, the additional root PLI with the dependent SLI/PLI will always be created and appear as a separate line item. No quantities are merged.

If a user changes the dependent warranty in the basket, the current dependent warranty PLI is removed and a new dependent warranty PLI of the selected type is added. The exchange is done for the total quantity. There is no item splitting.

The price calculation is different for warranty PLIs, in case the price depends on the product for which the warranty is applicable. In this case, the product's price has to be calculated first and then the warranty price is calculated in relation to the product price.

It is possible to forbid the purchase of a warranty depending on the shipping address using a shipping rule. If a warranty is not eligible, the user will be notified and can remove the warranty from the basket to continue the checkout or go back to the basket and try to order the same product with a different warranty.

Warranties do not have shipping costs. You may add a surcharge using a shipping rule if necessary.

Dependent warranties use the tax class of the parent PLI for calculation.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.