---
id: '30fb8e7419b39c43a53a4aa48d1dfc85'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2806H2'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:36:59.799056+00:00'
---
This concept provides an overview of how to configure promotion inclusion/exclusion groups and explains some implementation aspects.

In general, a promotion can be applied to orders, to shipping costs, or to a single product. The inclusion/exclusion feature applies to the product item level.

However, there may exist some products which should not be discounted at all. Therefore, an inclusion/exclusion feature has been implemented to define

groups of products which can be discounted and

groups of products which cannot be discounted.

The granularity varies from selecting categories to picking up single products. Selecting a category means that all products belonging to this category, and those belonging to any child category, will be considered.

There may exist products which cannot be discounted at all. It is inconvenient to define the set of excluded products for each promotion. Therefore, it is possible to define one product exclusion group which is valid for all promotions of an application.

Another way is to define a set of excluded categories. This is a more convenient way to exclude all products of a category instead of adding them to the exclusion list individually.

Setting up application level exclusion groups can be done at *<channel>* | *Applications* | *<application>* on the *Promotions* tab under *Application Level Exclusions*.

Application level exclusion groups are valid for all promotions of an application that belongs to a consumer channel.

Product/category inclusion/exclusion groups of a promotion can be defined for conditions, as well as for actions.

**Condition:**

In general a condition defines if a promotion rule will be applied or not. Therefore an *item inclusion/exclusion condition *does not (necessarily) define for which products the discount is applied. This must be setup in the Action section (see below).

An *item inclusion/exclusion condition* requires at least one included category or product. So it's not possible to define only excluded products or categories (the condition is never satisfied in this case).

An item *inclusion/exclusion condition* is satisfied when at least one of the included products is in the cart (an included product is either explicitly included or via category and neither explicitly excluded nor via category).

This also applies if there are additional excluded products in the cart. So a *product exclusion condition* cannot prevent a promotion rule being applied.

**Action:**

In this section it can be defined on which products the discount is granted. This depends on the selection in the back office (see screenshot).

The following options are available:

(1) "all cart items": The discount is granted to __every__ product in the cart, also to excluded products!

(2) "all cart items matching the condition": The discount is granted on all included products defined in the condition.

(3) "all cart items matching the condition but do not count towards the minimum number of included items": Similar to (2) but only useful with an additional sub condition "Minimum Number of Items Defined in Item Inclusions".

(4) "selected items": The products the discount is granted to can be selected manually. The button will open a page where included/excluded products and categories can be selected.

An *action item inclusion/exclusion *requires at least one included category or product. So it is not possible to define only excluded products or categories (the condition is never satisfied in this case).

An *action item inclusion/exclusion* is independent from an* Item inclusion/exclusion condition. *Products and Categories that are included in an *Item inclusion/exclusion condition* can be excluded in an a*ction item inclusion/exclusion* and vice versa.

The promotion discount may be based on the *order*, an *item*, the *shipping* costs or a *free gift*. Each of these promotion discount types can be configured to trigger a specific promotion action, e.g., an *item percentage off* discount.

Order

Order Percentage Off

Order Value Off

Item

Item Percentage Off

Item Target Price

Item Value Off

Shipping

Shipping Percentage Off

Shipping Target Price

Shipping Value Off

Free Gift

Automatic Gift

Hidden Gift

If a product is in an inclusion set at promotion level, but also in the application level exclusion set, it will not be considered! To overrule this regulation, the flag *Override Application Level Exclusions* must be enabled. In general, exclusions win over inclusions.

Per default, application level exclusions are stronger than promotion level definitions. However, each promotion can be configured to overrule the setting.

This subsection does not cover all implementation done in detail, but it explains some interesting aspects.

A promotion can have more than one rule. Internally, this is represented by an instance of `Rebate`

. Each rule consists of one or more conditions and one action. Currently, only one action can be configured, but the framework itself allows more than one action.

As mentioned before, each condition and action can have groups of included or excluded products, or categories respectively. Internally, inclusion/exclusion groups are represented by an instance of `RebateFilterGroup`

. It can be one of two types:

PRODUCT: filter group which refers to products

CATEGORY: filter group which refers to categories

The scope is one of this.

NONE: fall back

ACTION: filter group belonging to promotion actions

CONDITION: filter group for promotion condition

APPLICATION: application level filter group

All business logic to access filter groups, to assign them to/unassign them from conditions/actions are provided by `RebateFilterGroupRepository`

.

The items assigned to a rule filter group are referenced by `RebateFilterObjectAssignment`

. It maps the item's id (product or category UUID) to the rule filter group ID.

The `RebateFilterGroupAssignment`

references a rule filter group to a condition or action.

The application level exclusion is represented by an instance of `RebateFilterGroup`

with scope APPLICATION. If there are neither product nor category exclusions defined, no `RebateFilterGroup`

will exist. If all products or categories are removed from an existing application exclusion group, the instance of `RebateFilterGroup`

will be removed as well.

The `RebateFilterGroupRepository`

provides methods to handle application-wide inclusion/exclusion groups.

Enfinity Suite/Intershop offers wizards to select products and categories. These wizards are used for assigning products or categories to inclusion/exclusion groups.

The pipeline `ViewPromotionRebateInclusionsExclusions`

provides call and callback nodes for the product and category wizards at promotion level, and the pipeline `ViewApplicationPromotionPreferenceInclusionsExclusions`

likewise at store level.

There are some important parameters which must be passed to the wizard for proper working.

|
|
|---|---|
PipelineComponentName | Name of the component, not important. |
PipelineComponentCaller | Who calls the component. You can use it e.g. in component templates to place special text. |
PipelineComponentStartPipeline | The start pipeline of the component. |
PipelineComponentReturnPipeline | The callback pipeline of your application. |
PipelineComponentReturnValueName | The callback pipeline of your application will expect the returnValue with this dictionaryKey. |
PipelineComponentCancelPipeline | The callback-pipeline in case of "cancel" button is used (optional). |
PipelineComponentBackToPipeline | A pipeline within your application in case of "back" button at component. |

In addition, all parameters passed to and through the wizard must be stored in a map named `PipelineComponentParameters`

. This map is kept in the session and passed back when returning to the caller pipeline.

Furthermore, each wizard requires some individual parameters:

|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|
ProductSelectWizard | select one or more products | ViewProductSelectWizard-Search |
|
CategorySelectWizard | select one or more categories | ViewCategorySelectWizard-PrepareCatalogAssignment |
|
CategorySearchWizard | select one or more categories | ViewCategorySearchWizard-Search |
|

The central processing of assigning/unassigning items to and from a rule filter group is done in `ProcessPromotionRebateInclusionsExclusions-AssignOrUnassignAllObjects`

. Depending on the number of returned elements, the assignment/unassignment of products/categories to/from the rule filter group may be performed in a batch job.

The threshold is configured in

**bc_marketing/staticfiles/share/system/config/cartridges/bc_marketing.properties**

# Threshold to perform the product and category assignment to a promotion's rebate filter group in a batch job. intershop.cartridges.bc_marketing.promotion.assignment.threshold = 1000

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.