---
id: '319afe23b98303a290b76a8d2f8078cf'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2756E1'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:40:15.763809+00:00'
---
The IOM Connector is a set of cartridges that allows data exchange and communication between Intershop Commerce Management and Intershop Order Management. It is an extension (or "service") module for Intershop Commerce Management. As such, it requires a base version against which it can be deployed. The table below shows version dependencies between those entities.

Below you find some general information about IOM Connector - both technical and business.

In a nutshell, Intershop set up with IOM Connector will affect the following:

Extended B2B features such as order approval or additional order information are fully compatible with the IOM Connector. Orders will be exported to IOM only after the corresponding approval processes are completed. In addition, any information stored to the order - such as message to merchant, cost center and project - will be exported as well.

As with any Intershop feature that connects ICM to another system, all features are realized using Managed Services framework.

Intershop recommends to create and manage the IOM Services in the context of channels.

| IOM Connector | Intershop Commerce Management | B2B Extension Module | Intershop Order Management |
|---|---|---|---|
| 1.0 | 7.5 | 1.2 | 2.0 |
| 2.0 | 7.6 | - | 2.1 |
| 3.0 | 7.7.2.3 | - | 2.1 |
| 5.0 | 7.9 | - | 2.2 |
| 6.0 | 7.10 | - | 2.9 |
| 6.3 | 7.10.17.2 | - | 2.15 |

Term | Description |
|---|---|
| ICM | The abbreviation for Intershop Commerce Management |
| IOM | The abbreviation for Intershop Order Management |

Multiple shipping addresses are currently not supported by the IOM Connector.


Assume an order supports multiple shipments, those shipments could be processed from different sources. However, IOM currently only expects single shipping.

The reason behind this is the nature of the business features supported by the Intershop Order Management itself.

This configuration adjustment is automatically realized with the deployment and database initialization of the IOM Connector.

You can check either on the checkout pages in the storefront or in the database to see if "Shipping to multiple addresses" is disabled.

Warning

You need to either **configure properly** or **unshare** IOM Inventory Service in order to complete the checkout process.

Order two or more products.

Use the *Express Shop *functionality for quickly ordering some products at the homepage.

Check the *Shipping address *section and verify that there is no *Ship to multiple addresses *option.

Your shop's checkout address page should look similar to the screenshot shown in the left table column below.

| Multiple shipments disabled | Multiple shipments enabled |
|---|---|

Alternatively to verifying the setting in the storefront, the setting can also be checked in the database. Proceed as follows:

Open a terminal and connect to the database.

sqlplus <username>/<password>@<connection-info>

Check the default preferences.

SQL> select defaultvalue from preferencedefinition where preferencename = 'MultipleShipmentsSupported'; DEFAULTVALUE -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- false SQL>

Check the domain preferences.

SQL> select stringvalue from preference where preferencename = 'MultipleShipmentsSupported'; no rows selected SQL>

The query shown above will return `no rows selected`

with the default installation scenario of the IOM Connector. If you have changed or customized it in your project, make sure that the return result is `false`

.

The following configurations must be considered after the system is set up to Intershop Commerce Management 7.5.x. They must also be maintained during the project duration.

Warning

Do not use warranties. IOM has yet to support service product types.

Disable pack slip messaging, gift wrapping and messaging and desired delivery date. Those features can be turned on and off for each application in the system individually. For this task you need the permission to manage applications.

Perform the following steps:

The following example shows how to disable shipping instructions for *Standard Ground* shipping:

It is necessary to create a new user whose credentials will be used to enable communication between IOM and ICM. Said user requires a special permission *ShopServiceClient*. When configuring ICM managed services, those credentials will be used. Each time a service is called, an attempt is made to identify the ICM to the IOM by using these credentials.

When using the demo data from [Guide - IOM Demo Data Setup for IOM Connector](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1828425531/Guide+-+IOM+Demo+Data+Setup+for+IOM+Connector), the user will be created automatically.

Go to *http://<intershop-order-managment-url>/omt/app* and log in as administrator.

Note

For earlier versions (below IOM version 2.2) replace *omt* using *bakery.omt*

Enter the required data and click *Create User.*

Active checkbox

To activate the user, make sure to check the *Active* checkbox.

You need to to assign the role *ShopServiceClient *to the web service user. This role contains all permissions that are required to act with the IOM web services using the IOM Connector.

At the *Role Assignments* click on the newly created user

The communication between ICM and IOM is realized by utilizing [Concept - Managed Service Framework](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1759446169/Concept+-+Managed+Service+Framework). As with any managed service the following tasks must be performed for IOM-specific services to become operational:

Once the IOM-Connector is installed, step 1 and 2 can be done with scripts. Afterwards the configuration has to be entered manually into the individual Managed Services. Alternatively, you can also perform these steps completely manually.

Therefore refer to the *ICM Online Help* for basic information on how to enable a managed service and how to create a managed service configuration.

This information is also available as PDF, e.g., [Intershop Commerce Management - Managing Online Shops](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2873M5). See chapter *Operation and Maintenance* section *Services Management.*

Note

This document assumes that the setup process of Intershop Commerce Management with IOM Connector extension and Intershop Order Management has been completed and both system are started.

With one exception, all of the managed services require the *shop's name *in order to function. The exception is *IOM Inventory Service* which requires the actual *shop ID*. In order to get the required information ask your IOM database admin to provide you with the result of the following query:

OmsDB=# select ID,name from "ShopDO";

The result should look similar to the one below.

id | name -------+-------------------- 0 | All Shops 1 | OMS internal Shop 10000 | inTRONICS 10001 | inTRONICS Business (4 rows)

When you configure one *IOM Order Service, IOM Download Service, IOM Order State Service *or *IOM Reverse Serivce *enter the **shop's name **in the configuration field *Shop Name*, e.g. inTRONICS.

When configuring *IOM Inventory Service *you must enter the actual **shop ID**, e.g. 10000, as configuration value of *Shop ID*.

Note

**Deprecated since IOM Connector 6.3**

Starting with IOM Connector 6.3 the new IOM Order Export Service is available. This service replaces the IOM order Service. Both services should not be active at the same time.

*IOM Order Service* requires several technical attributes that must be configured. In general, they control the connection settings to the *IOM*. Ask your system administrator if you do not have them at hand. Those settings include:

| Parameter | Description | Example |
|---|---|---|
| Endpoint | The URI of the IOM order webservice.
| http://<your-iom-server>/webservices/OrderService/v1.2 |
| Username | An authorization combination against IOM. The IOM's user that is authenticated with these credentials must have the permission to use web services in IOM. | consumer_ws |
| Password | !InterShop00! | |
| Shop Name | The name of the shop as used in the IOM. | inTRONICS |
| Timeout | Requests to IOM consume time. This setting determines after how many milliseconds a given request will be aborted automatically. | 90000 |
| OrderMessageQueueHandlerConfig | ||
| Enable the OrderMessageQueue | If set to true, the communication between IOM and ICM will be logged in the database. Database administrators can extract those records. | true |
| Delete Non-Error records | If the communication operation completes with success, i.e., the order has exported successfully, enabling this option will trigger automatic deletion of this record. | true |
| Log Request Messages on Error | Set to true to enable logging of errors to the system error log (usually located on the file system). | true |

*Logging* and *Monitoring* sections are inherited from the standard managed service configuration. You may skip them at the moment.

Note

**Deprecated since IOM Connector 6.3**

Starting with IOM Connector 6.3 the new IOM Order History Service is available. This service replaces the IOM Order State Service. Both services should not be active at the same time.

The *IOM Order State Service* requires several technical attributes that must be configured. In general, they control the connection settings to the *IOM*. Ask your system administrator if you do not have them at hand. Those settings include:

| Parameter | Description | Example |
|---|---|---|
| Endpoint | The URI of the IOM order state webservice. | http://<your-iom-server>/webservices/OrderStateService/v1.0 |
| Username | An authorization combination against IOM. The IOM's user that is authenticated with these credentials must have the permission to use web service in IOM. | consumer_ws |
| Password | !InterShop00! | |
| Shop Name | The name of the shop as used in the IOM. | inSPIRED |
| Timeout | Requests to IOM consume time. This setting determines after how many milliseconds a given request will be aborted automatically. | 90000 |

*Logging* and *Monitoring* sections are inherited from the standard managed service configuration. You may skip them at the moment.

Configure at least the following properties for the *IOM Download Service*:

| Parameter | Description | Example |
|---|---|---|
| Endpoint | The URI of the IOM download web service. | http://<your-iom-server>/webservices/DownloadService/v1.0 |
| Username | Credentials for user authentication and authorization in IOM. The user must have the permission to use the service. | consumer_ws |
| Password | !InterShop00! | |
| Shop Name | The name of the shop as used in the IOM. | inTRONICS |
| Timeout | Requests to IOM consume time. This setting determines after how many milliseconds the given request will be aborted automatically. | 90000 |

*Logging* and *Monitoring* sections are inherited from the standard managed service configuration. You may skip them at the moment.

Note

**Deprecated since IOM Connector 6.3**

Starting with IOM Connector 6.3 the new IOM RMA Service is available. This service replaces the IOM Reverse Service. Both services should not be active at the same time.

The* IOM Reverse Service* requires several technical attributes that must be configured. In general, they control the connection settings to the *IOM*. Ask your system administrator if you do not have them at hand. Those settings include:

| Parameter | Description | Example |
|---|---|---|
| Endpoint | The URI of the IOM reverse web service. | http://<your-iom-server>/webservices/ReverseService/v1.0 |
| Username | An authorization combination against IOM. The IOM's user that is authenticated with these credentials must have the permission to use web services in IOM. | consumer_ws |
| Password | !InterShop00! | |
| Shop Name | The name of the shop as used in the IOM. | inTRONICS |
| Timeout | Requests to IOM consume time. This setting determines after how many milliseconds a given request will be aborted automatically. | 90000 |

*Logging* and *Monitoring* sections are inherited from the standard managed service configuration. You may skip them at the moment.

Note

**Since IOM Connector 2.0**

Configuring the IOM Inventory Service is only necessary when using the 2.0 Connector (or later) alongside with IOM 2.1 and ICM 7.6.

The *IOM Inventory Service* provides a way to communicate inventory levels from Intershop Order Management to Intershop Commerce Management. *ICM* and *IOM* exchange inventory information via HTTP and thus some necessary communication parameters must be established before the service is activated:

Parameter | Description | Example |
|---|---|---|
IOM REST Services URL | Base URL of the IOM REST services. | http://<your-iom-server>/servlets/services/ |
Username | An authorization combination against IOM. The IOM's user that is authenticated with these credentials must have the permission to use web services in IOM. | consumer_ws |
Password | !InterShop00! | |
Shop ID | The ID of the shop as used in the IOM. Note You need the actual shop-ID for this service and not the name of the shop as provided for the other IOM Managed Services. | 10000 |
Configuration parameter | Description | |
| Global cache | Enables caching of responses for 5 seconds | true |
| Availability check on failure | If there is an error with service execution, e.g., network problems, configuration failure, it checks the "available" flag of a product instead. | true |
| Configuration parameter | Description | |
| Reservation Type | The reservation type:
| COMPLETE |
| Reservation lifetime | The lifetime / validity of the stock reservation in seconds. Max value is 2147483647. Default is 10 minutes. | - |

After the *IOM Inventory Service *is configured*, *delete or unshare the standard *Inventory Service.*

If you do not unshare or delete the standard *Inventory Serivce, *you will put several processes at risk, since the system is unable to determine which inventory service to use.

Info

You might as well deactivate it, but since it is shared to the channel's application by default, the applications will still use it. Therefore it must be unshared from those applications or deleted altogether.

Note

**Since IOM Connector 6.3**

Configuring the IOM RMA Service is only necessary when using the 6.3 Connector (or later).

The* IOM RMA Service* requires several technical attributes that must be configured. In general, they control the connection settings to *IOM*. Ask your system administrator if you do not have them at hand. Those settings include:

| Parameter | Description | Example |
|---|---|---|
| Endpoint | The URI of the IOM RMA REST service. | http://<your-iom-server>/rest/rma |
| Username | An authorization combination against IOM. The IOM's user that is authenticated with these credentials must have the permission to use web service in IOM. | consumer_ws |
| Password | !InterShop00! | |
| Shop Name | The name of the shop as used in the IOM. | inTRONICS |
| Timeout | Requests to IOM consume time. This setting determines after how many milliseconds a given request will be aborted automatically. | 90000 |

*Logging* and *Monitoring* sections are inherited from the standard managed service configuration. You may skip them at the moment.

Once *IOM Order Service* is configured and activated, the ICM *order* export has to be configured. Using this scenario will route orders to IOM.

As a prerequisite of this task is one must have completed [Configure IOM Order Service](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Guide-ICMandIOMConfigurationTasks(validto2.17)-ConfigureIOMOrderService).

In the *Order Export* section click *New* to create a new order export.

Enter *Name, Description* and select a *Configuration Type*, i.e. *IOMOrderService.*

The available options for *Configuration Type* are depend directly on the created services of type *IOM Order Services*. I.e., you have as many options here as you have created services. It is recommended to manage only one service of a type in order to avoid confusion.

Click *Apply.*

Click *Scheduling* and configure when the order export should be triggered.

For example select *On Order Creation* to export the order immediately when it is captured.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.