---
id: '3206eb13c84ad0cb205524f09cdd7116'
title: 'Public Release Notes - Gradle Tools'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/25944F'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:49.457402+00:00'
---
Note

This Gradle tools version is included in Intershop 7 version 7.4.6.3 and 7.5.0.0. It can also be used along with Intershop 7 version 7.4.6.1 and 7.4.6.2.

This Gradle tools version is based on [Gradle 2.0](http://www.gradle.org/docs/2.0/release-notes.html).

To use Gradle tools version 2.0 with Intershop 7 version 7.4.6.1 or 7.4.6.2, perform the following steps to migrate your environment:

`createCorporateConfiguration, `

`createCorporateDistribution`

,` createDeveloperHome`

.`distributionUrl`

in Add/Change the following properties in the *gradle.properties* file:

filter.com.intershop.build.set.cartridge-plugins=2.0.+ filter.com.intershop.build.set.extension-plugins=2.0.+ version.com.intershop.deployment-bootstrap=2.0.+

`'com.intershop:deployment-bootstrap:2.0.+'`

.Other Migration Steps

Besides these general migration steps to get to use version 2.0, none of the migration steps in this document is mandatory. (They are only required if you want to take advantage of new features.)

Some new features (and their migration steps) only work in conjunction with migrating Intershop 7 to version >= 7.5. This is noted where relevant.

Intershop Gradle tools 2.0 are based on Gradle 2.0. Previous versions were based on Gradle 1.8.

See Gradle's own release notes for changes:

Compatibility

We raised the major version of Intershop Gradle tools to indicate that compatibility could be broken because of the update to Gradle 2.0. However, besides the upgrade to Gradle 2.0, all changes introduced in Intershop Gradle tools are backwards compatible. (Especially, no deprecated features were removed.)

It is possible to deploy cartridges on each appserver host instead of the shared file system. This reduces the downsides of a shared file system as a possible single point of failure and performance bottleneck.

See:

`TargetExtension`

Note

This only works in along with Intershop 7 version >= 7.5. In earlier versions the cartridges must still be deployed in the shared file system.

To deploy cartridges on the appserver, see [Recipe: Configure Cartridge Location](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1783302208#Cookbook-GradleDeploymentTools(7.4CI-ICM7.7)-ConfigureCartridgeLocation) in [Cookbook - Gradle Deployment Tools (7.4 CI - ICM 7.7)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1783302208).

Intershop 7 no longer deploys its own Java Development Kit (JDK). Instead it uses an existing JDK on your system. This has the following advantages:

See:

`TargetExtension`

Note

This only works in conjunction with Intershop 7 version >= 7.5. Earlier versions still deploy a JDK to *<IS_HOME>/engine/jdk* and rely on that location.

The JDK in `<IS_HOME>/engine/jdk`

will be removed upon first deployment of an assembly based on Intershop 7 version >= 7.5. Some empty directories may be left over – delete them manually.

By default Intershop 7 uses the JDK used to run the deployment. (It may also point to the JRE located inside a JDK.) You may override this, i.e., run Intershop 7 with a different JDK than the deployment. To do so:

`javaHome`

in In both cases make sure that:

Clustered and automated deployment is now fully supported for the Solr search server. Intershop 7 has gained an additional host type 'solr' and an assembly 'intershop7-solr' defining it. This host type includes the Intershop nodemanager, tomcat application server and the Solr server application.

See:

`SolrDeploymentPlugin`

Note

This only works in conjunction with Intershop 7 version >= 7.5 and a compatible version of the Solr search service. Earlier versions still only support solr in single machine deployments.

To make the new host type available in your assembly perform the following steps in a development environment:

`version.com.intershop.assembly.intershop7`

by `version.com.intershop.assembly.intershop7-solr`

in the `intershop7-solr`

instead of `intershop7`

by replacing the name in all places in the Single machine deployments (like those of developers) will automatically run a Solr server in the first Intershop 7 appserver instance.

For a clustered deployment set up an additional deployment for the new host type, see [Cookbook - Gradle Deployment Tools (7.4 CI - ICM 7.7)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1783302208).

There is a new extensible API for creating and configuring Tomcat servlet container instances. This API enables configuration of settings like JVM arguments or contained Web Applications.

See:

`TomcatPlugin`

Note

This only works in conjunction with Intershop 7 version >= 7.5. In earlier versions usage of this API will have no effect.

Intershop 7 encrypts sensitive parts of the database content (and optionally the database password itself). The accompanying encryption configuration (including the keystore) is now generated before or during the deployment and copied to the deployed server as is.

This eases detection of tampering and recovering it. Also the target directory is configurable, allowing for easier administration of file permissions.

See:

`EncryptionAdminPlugin`

`EncryptionDeploymentPlugin`

For development environments no migration is necessary.

For production/demo environments:

Depending on when you want to modify your encryption configuration, perform one of the following alternatives:

If you want to modify configuration during the deployment, add a configuration block to your *settings.gradle *containing at least the `algorithm`

to use for future encryptions:

[...] deploymentBootstrap { [...] config { [...] encryption { // For compatibility reasons the default is the outdated "Password based encryption with MD5 and triple DES" algorithm algorithm = 'PBEWithMD5AndTripleDES' } } }

The next deployment will adapt your encryption configuration in the folder of the *settings.gradle* file and the server and make the new algorithm effective for all future encryptions.

If you want to modify configuration in a pre-deployment step, add the following line to your settings.gradle:

[...] deploymentBootstrap { [...] config { [...] generateEncryptionConfig.enabled = false } }

The deployment will not touch the encryption configuration and only deploy it.

See[ Recipe: Configure Encryption](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1783302208#Cookbook-GradleDeploymentTools(7.4CI-ICM7.7)-ConfigureEncryption) in [Cookbook - Gradle Deployment Tools (7.4 CI - ICM 7.7)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1783302208) for more details.

The tool to generate sources to set up a CI Infrastructure and project has been enhanced. It generates sources for:

The documentation in the [Cookbook - Setup CI Infrastructure (valid to GradleTools 2.1)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1793131647) now covers setting up a CI server, including a full example if using Jenkins as CI Server, Subversion as VCS and Nexus as Repository Server.

The corporate specific repository configuration for the corporate plugin has been reduced to a single *properties*-file, which makes it easier to maintain and upgrade with future Gradle tools versions. See also [section Project/Corporate Specific Artifacts and Configuration](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1783302819/Concept+-+Gradle+Build+Tools#Concept-GradleBuildTools-CorporateConfiguration) in [Concept - Gradle Build Tools](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1783302819/Concept+-+Gradle+Build+Tools).

The development environment scripts have been improved (see [Recipe: Setup a Development Environment](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1789069382#Cookbook-GradleDeveloperWorkflow(validtoGradleTools2.7)-SetupDevelopmentEnvironment) in [Cookbook - Gradle Developer Workflow (valid to Gradle Tools 2.7)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1789069382)):

See:

Note

The documentation refers to a new repository *ishreleases*. In previous versions we used only *releases* for Intershop releases as well for the project releases. This will be an issue, when Intershop provides a public repository. In this case it is no longer necessary to import a release from DVD, but it is necessary to configure a proxy repository. With different repositories it is possible to change the configuration for the repository with Intershop releases. Therefore we added this new repository *ishreleases*.

It is also possible to use the old configuration, in this case *ishreleases* can be replaced with *releases*.

It is required to use the new tooling to upgrade Gradle tools to version 2.0 (see first chapter of this document).

In the past the assembly build process on the CI server included running the DBInit. There are two reasons to do so:

It is now also possible to alternatively import an existing database dump and run DBMigrate for the same purpose. (You can also do both for the same assembly in two separate build processes.)

The existing DSL for configuring DBInit has been deprecated and replaced by a new one.

See:

`IshAssemblyBuildExtension`

The following DSL syntax in the *build.gradle* of the assembly is deprecated:

assemblyBuild { database { inherit('com.intershop.assembly:intershop7') initCartridges = ['ucm_demo'] } }

the following syntax:

assemblyBuild { dbinit { importFrom('com.intershop.assembly:intershop7') initCartridges = ['ucm_demo'] } dbmigrate { importFrom('com.intershop.assembly:primetech:7.4.6.1.+') } }

You may configure the webserver to work inside an external SSL box through the deployment DSL.

See:

`SSLBoxDeploymentPlugin`

To run the webserver inside an SSL box add the following to the *settings.gradle* deployment file for the webserver host.

[...] deploymentBootstrap { [...] config { [...] webadapter { [...] useSSLBox = true sslBoxSecuredPort = 12345 } } }

The default behavior of the deployment is to overwrite/revert changes introduced by non-deployment processes (like the application server) when rerun. This can cause problems when using mass data replication for file content.

This is now handled correctly. Files deployed to *<IS_SHARE>/sites/*/1* are also deployed to *<IS_SHARE>/sites/*/2* for live systems. Also staged content in *<IS_SHARE>/sites/*/1 *and * <IS_SHARE>/sites/*/2* will not be overwritten by deployment.

See:

`StagingDeploymentPlugin`

Remove modification handler added as a workaround as described in[ Recipe: Configure Mass Data Replication](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1783302208#Cookbook-GradleDeploymentTools(7.4CI-ICM7.7)-staging) in [Cookbook - Gradle Deployment Tools (7.4 CI - ICM 7.7)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1783302208) for Gradle tools version 1.0-1.1.

To configure the database instance you can now specify an Oracle service name instead of an Oracle SID.

See:

`DatabaseExtension`

For development environments specify a property `databaseServiceName`

in *<ASSEMBLY>/environment.properties* instead of property `databaseSid`

(see *<ASSEMBLY>/environment.properties*.*sample*).

For production/demo environments the following DSL syntax in the *settings.gradle* deployment file is deprecated:

database { sid = '<FILL IN>' }

Replace it with the following syntax:

database { serviceName = '<FILL IN>' }

You may now run the [JAXB schema generator](https://jaxb.java.net/nonav/2.0.2/docs/schemagen.html) in Gradle, generating an XSD from annotated Java classes.

See:

The task `jaxb<name>`

for generating Java classes from *xsd*-files using JAXB sometimes showed up 'UP-TO-DATE', not regenerating Java classes, even if *xsd-files* where changed. This is now fixed.

See:

The `wsdl`

plugin now includes non-Java files generated from WSDL as resource files in the created *jar*-file.

See:

Importing Intershop deliveries does no longer cause to publish a module if it already exists in the target repository (with the same organization, name and version).

This improves the speed and safety of imports. Configuring nexus repositories to allow "redeploy" during import is no longer necessary.

See:

Inheriting host types in the assembly process now overrides host type flags (`includeShare`

, `includeLocal`

, etc) if the host type was created before. This is closer to the behavior intended in most cases.

Assume the following snippet in the *build.gradle* of the assembly:

assembly { hostTypes { webserver { include('com.example:component') { transitive = false } } } inheritFrom('com.intershop.assembly:intershop7') }

The host type `webserver`

in the inherited assembly `intershop7`

has the flag `includeLocal = true.`


In Gradle tools version 1.0-1.1 publishing above assembly will result in a host type definition with `includeLocal`

`= false`

in the *ivy.xml* file of the assembly.

With Gradle tools version 2.0 `includeLocal`

is inherited as `true`

.

See:

The host type `javadoc`

for deploying only the Javadoc was only available in assembly `intershop7`

. It is now also available in all assemblies inheriting from it, unless explicitly excluded (or explicitly only including some environments or host types).

Note

When using Gradle tools in conjunction with Intershop 7 version < 7.5, the assemblies `primetech`

and `primetech-solr`

still miss host type `javadoc`

. After rebuilding your custom assembly it will contain the host-type.

Deployment of symbolic links failed if the link existed, but the link target did not. This is now fixed.

See:

Files whose complete content is generated during the deployment can now be part of the index. This allows the deployment to detect modifications and collisions like for all other deployed files.

Examples of generated files are:

Like Gradle for copying the deployment uses checksums for checking whether a file must be updated or not. Gradle tools 2.0 try to avoid calculating checksums for repository files based on the files metadata. This feature is still experimental, but can help speeding up redeployments in development of Intershop 7 and custom deployment logic tremendously.

To activate this experimental feature either set the Java system property `FastSourceChecksum`

to `true`

when running the deployment (or an assembly process running the deployment). To set the system property:

`-DFastSourceChecksum=true`

when running `gradlew`

of assembly or deployment to activate it for a single run.`systemProp.FastSourceChecksum=true`

in the For systems that are not part of a replication environment the deployment overwrites changes made to the file * <IS_SHARE>/system/config/cluster/solr/solr.xml*. As this is the place, where Solr stores its index configurations, this basically resets all Solr data.

Define a custom modification handler, e.g.:

deployment { modification { if (target.includeShare) { keep('solrXml') { priority 'myProject' // TODO: adjust dir target.shareDirectory include 'system/config/cluster/solr/solr.xml' } } } }

This issue only covers the given *solr.xml* configuration file, not the index data itself. If you deploy pregenerated solr indexes (into the *<IS_SHARE>/sites* folder), you have to define own modification handling rules for those files.

The Gradle Tools 2.0.1 Patch Release fixes the following issues:

Dependencies to a snapshot components (whose version ends with

) will not get refreshed for each build, which may result in Gradle using outdated artifacts from its local cache.*-SNAPSHOT*

If you have a project depending on another project in your component set, and you make changes to both projects that depend on one another, the build may fail because the depending project will use the outdated version of its dependency.

When upgrading local component set sources to a newer version, obsolete artifacts of the old version may still be used for the assembly.

The intershop-ci-bootstrap will generate projects with dependencies to Gradle Tools plugins in version `2.+`

. This may break the build once newer releases of Gradle Tools are made available, because they may not be compatible with older Gradle base versions anymore.

Please change the following properties in all your gradle.properties files from

filter.com.intershop.build.set.cartridge-plugins=2.+ filter.com.intershop.build.set.extension-plugins=2.+ version.com.intershop.deployment-bootstrap=2.+

to

filter.com.intershop.build.set.cartridge-plugins=2.0.+ filter.com.intershop.build.set.extension-plugins=2.0.+ version.com.intershop.deployment-bootstrap=2.0.+

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.