---
id: '325588a69b57bc19fbcb0dd94c5ae443'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2B8550'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:37:14.585062+00:00'
---
This document gives a high level overview of the Enfinity Captcha Framework (cartridge:* bc_captcha*).

The captcha framework provides the ability to connect to any captcha validation service/provider or implementation. The implementation is based on the [Overview - Managed Service Framework](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1758626643/Overview+-+Managed+Service+Framework) for easy activating and configuration.

It defines the base and ensures that all possible captcha check implementations are done the same way using the here given API to connect with Enfinity.

A CAPTCHA is a program that protects websites against bots by generating and grading tests that humans can pass but current computer programs cannot. For example, humans are able to read distorted text or alienated audio sound, but current computer programs are not.

The term CAPTCHA (for Completely Automated Public Turing Test To Tell Computers and Humans Apart) was coined in 2000 by Luis von Ahn, Manuel Blum, Nicholas Hopper and John Langford of Carnegie Mellon University.

Name | Meaning |
|---|---|
captcha | functionality to protect against spam or bots |
challenge | the audio/video task to solve |
generate | create an audio/a video challenge |
validate | check the given solution for a challenge |

Implementations:

The following class diagram shows the major classes and interfaces of the captcha framework that are relevant for the most use cases.

The overview diagram shows:

The framework wraps the displaying/generating of a captcha in two template modules described below.

*bc_captcha\staticfiles\cartridge\templates\default\modules\captcha\CaptchaFormField.isml*

A form containing a CAPTCHA includes at least the `<isCaptchaFormField>`

template module wherever the CAPTCHA appears.

The module `<isCaptchaFormField>`

checks the following preconditions:

The last precondition is controversial and it may be dropped in future releases. Alternatively, some brute force protection might be implemented for logged in adversaries. Currently CAPTCHAs are not displayed for logged in customers.

If the preconditions are fulfilled, the module invokes:

`prepareViewCaptcha`

method defined in the `CaptchaService`

interface which returns a map containing all necessary data to display the CAPTCHA (the actual creation of the CAPTCHA is service-specific and has to be done in each captcha service implementation);`getCaptchaTemplate`

method defined in the `CaptchaCapabilities`

interface to include the service-specific template (the actual template is service-specific and has to be created in each captcha service implementation);By calling the two methods mentioned above, the process of creation of the CAPTCHA (e.g., an image or an audio challenge) and the corresponding user input fields are covered. It is important to note that:

`getCaptchaTemplate`

method;`prepareViewCaptcha`

responds a `Map`

with all data needed to render the CAPTCHA;`captchaFormData`

;*bc_captcha\staticfiles\cartridge\templates\default\modules\captcha\CaptchaInclude.isml*

The second module comes into play if the captcha implementation needs any static or global data (e.g., CSS and/or Javascript).

Therefore the module is included in the header section of the `HTML`

site.

The module `<isCaptchaFormField>`

checks the following preconditions:

`CaptchaCapabilities`

demands a header template;If the preconditions are fulfilled, the module invokes:

`prepareViewCaptchaHeader`

method defined in the `CaptchaService`

interface which returns a map containing all necessary data for the header template (the required data of the CAPTCHA is service-specific and has to be done in each CAPTCHA service implementation);`getCaptchaHeaderTemplate`

method defined in the `CaptchaCapabilities`

interface to include the service-specific header template (the actual header template is service-specific and has to be created in each captcha service implementation);By calling the two methods mentioned above, the process of preparing the required data to include static files and to include the service-specific header template (contains the reference to static files or static code blocks) are covered.

`prepareViewCaptchaHeader`

responds a map with all data needed in the service-specific header template.`captchaHeaderData`

.The framework wraps the validation as described in the following section.

To use captcha validation, the following things are required:

`CaptchaValidator`

at the CAPTCHA answer parameter (see A webform definition example is shown below:

<parameters xsi:type="webform:FormParameter" optional="false" name="<yourCaptchaAnswerParameterName>" type="java.lang.String"> <validatorBindings validator="Captcha-ValidatorCaptcha"> <parameterBindings xsi:type="core:ParameterValueBinding" name="<yourCaptchaPreferenceName>" value="<yourFeatureCaptchaPreferenceID>"/> <validator/> </parameters>

Note

The framework contains a webform definition `Captcha.webform`

to provide an access to the validator in every webform. It is located at `bc_captcha\staticfiles\cartridge\webforms\Captcha.webform`

.

**A CAPTCHA form parameter must never be optional.** If the parameter is made optional, a malicious user could remove the form field from the source code in its web browser and the validation would still pass.

If a form with a CAPTCHA is submitted and the corresponding webform parameter contains a reference to the `CaptchaValidator,`

the following preconditions are checked:

If the preconditions are not fulfilled, the validator will always succeed.

If the preconditions are fulfilled:

`Map<String, Object>`

);`verifyCaptcha`

method defined in the `CaptchaService`

interface;`verifyCaptcha`

method of each CAPTCHA service implementation;`CaptchaResponse`

containing the verification result;Note

Together with the current field (which is the field the validator is connected to) the from parameter map is given as arguments to the `verifyCaptcha`

method of the captcha service. The current field name should contain a prefix. Using this prefix, all other fields which belong to the captcha service may be found with the help of this prefix in the map with all sent parameters.

In case of a validation error an error message should be displayed. This is not handled by the `ISML`

module to keep the possibility of free placement and design of the error message. Nevertheless, this can be easily achieved by using the webform functionality. See the example below:

<isif condition="#ForgotPasswordFormStep1:recaptcharesponsefield:isError("error.captcha")#"> <istext key="captcha.yourErrorText"/> </isif>

Activation and configuration is done via the Managed Service framework, see [Concept - Managed Service Framework](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1759446169/Concept+-+Managed+Service+Framework) for details.

Each feature that uses a CAPTCHA (e.g., the "E-mail to a friend" feature) has a preference that controls the activation/deactivation of the CAPTCHA for that specific feature. These preferences can be viewed in the back office, as shown in the next screenshot:

Dynamic configuration of each CAPTCHA service is possible as described in the [Concept - Managed Service Framework](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1759446169/Concept+-+Managed+Service+Framework#Concept-ManagedServiceFramework-DynamicConfiguration). Basically the two important steps are:

The dynamic parameters are then available and configurable in the back office as shown in the next screenshot. Note that the parameters are service-specific.

For information on activating a service, refer to [Concept - Managed Service Framework](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1759446169/Concept+-+Managed+Service+Framework).

The following image shows the defined interfaces and classes. An explanation of each follows below.

**CaptchaService**

This interface must be implemented by each CAPTCHA service that should be developed. The implementation must be done using the Managed Service framework.

*com.intershop.component.captcha.capi.CaptchaService*

**CaptchaCapabilities**

This interface defines the core capabilities for the CAPTCHA services.

Basically:

*com.intershop.component.captcha.capi.CaptchaCapabilities*

**CaptchaResponse**

This class defines a data container used to hand over the CAPTCHA check output data (method `verifyCaptcha `

in `CaptchaService`

) back to the `CaptchaValidator.`


*com.intershop.component.captcha.internal.CaptchaResponse*

**CaptchaValidator**

This class is referenced in the `Captcha.webform`

definition for the webform parameter holding the CAPTCHA answer. In this class, the CAPTCHA validation service implementation (method `verifyCaptcha`

) is invoked.

Preconditions are:

*com.intershop.component.captcha.internal.CaptchaValidator*

**Captcha.webform**

Contains the reference to the `CaptchaValidator`

.

*bc_captcha\staticfiles\cartridge\webforms\Captcha.webform*

**CaptchaFormField.isml**

Encapsulates the functionality to display and validate a CAPTCHA implementation.

*bc_captcha\staticfiles\cartridge\templates\default\modules\captcha\CaptchaFormField.isml*

**CaptchaInclude.isml**

Encapsulates static includes (CSS, JS, etc.) required by the CAPTCHA implementation.

*bc_captcha\staticfiles\cartridge\templates\default\modules\captcha\CaptchaInclude.isml*

**Modules.isml**

Conatins the module definition for the two ISML template modules mentioned above.

*bc_captcha\staticfiles\cartridge\templates\default\modules\captcha\modules.isml*

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.