---
id: '3265700b14326df32efd11bfea52f65c'
title: 'Overview - ICM Migration Support'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/478H86'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:29:51.661056+00:00'
---
This projects contains three major tools to support migration projects from ICM7.10 to ICM11+.

ICM Migration Support is a tool that assists with migrating from one major ICM version to another.

It aims to streamline the migration process by reducing repetitive tasks and providing a set of executable migration steps.

However, it is not a fully automated migration solution; some manual steps remain necessary.

Perform a backup of the cartridge list of your deployed ICM 7.10 project.

Since the cartridge list in ICM 11+ is generated based on the declared dependencies, the current list becomes important later to compare the cartridge list of the ICM 7.10 project with the generated one.

The migration tool tries to commit changes automatically after each step.

This fine-grained commit approach allows users to revert automatically applied changes step by step if necessary.

Please note, that the `.git`

folder is looked up in the current directory or one level above the given target path.

To disable the auto commit, set the `-PnoAutoCommit`

parameter.

Use the following command to execute all migration steps on all subprojects within a directory:

```
gradlew migration:migrateAll -Ptarget=<path_to_7_10_project> -Psteps=<path_to_migration_steps> [-PnoAutoCommit]
```


Use the following commands to execute specific migration steps:

```
gradlew migration:migrateOne -Ptask=project -Ptarget=<path_to_7_10_project>/your_cartridge -Psteps=<path_to_single_migration_step> [-PnoAutoCommit]
gradlew migration:migrateOne -Ptask=projects -Ptarget=<path_to_7_10_project> -Psteps=<path_to_single_migration_step> [-PnoAutoCommit]
```


The migration steps are located in the *migration/src/main/resources/migration* folder of the project and are organized by major ICM versions. This allows to migrate from one major version to another while considering different starting points and supporting migration in more maintainable steps.

This project reuses code from the project [GradleKotlinConverter](https://github.com/bernaferrari/GradleKotlinConverter), licensed under the Apache License 2.0.

The code from the project was adapted to fit the needs of this project.

Comments in the function `applyConversions()`

of the *Gradle Kotlin DSL converter* code identify all changes.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.