---
id: '329a667f8afc64f873528f1c145fccb2'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2V3700'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:56.482970+00:00'
---
The document describes the concept for site preview of catalog and catalog categories. The site preview started in the Intershop Commerce Management can be done for a selected date and with a configuration to show all categories.

Preview configuration parameters will be accessed using a provider: `CatalogConfigurationProvider`

. This provider defines extension points for several attribute configurations.

The implementation of the provider maps configuration values from the preview user interface to "technical" attributes.

UI Configuration | Technical Attribute |
|---|---|
Preview date |
|
Make all categories visible |
|

The extension implementation of the attribute configuration gets configuration values from the preview context.

The `DefaultCatalogConfigurationProvider`

class provides default values for Java extensions methods. It checks if an extension implementation is available; if not, the default value is returned. The default values simulate the standard shop behavior.

The extension implementation is done in *sld_preview* and therefore only available if cartridge *sld_preview* is assigned to the application. This makes it easy to deactivate the preview functionality for a certain server (e.g., live system) by not assigning the *sld_preview* cartridge to a application.

For each parameter which influences the preview behavior there is a Java extension (xcs) and a Java extension implementation (*sld_preview*).

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.