---
id: '32bad2071a56924d9bf3fd2c340e36bd'
title: 'Public Release Note'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/29X223'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:37:08.561452+00:00'
---
The SolrCloud Search Service Adapter connects the Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) with a Solr server that runs in cloud mode. It replaces the Solr search service adapter delivered with the ICM release and uses a more recent version of Solr and its features. The search index configuration and maintenance in Intershop Commerce Management is almost the same but uses the Schema API and Configsets API provided by the newer Solr server version. Thus, the Solr Server is separated and independent of the ICM application server cluster.

[Recipe - Setup Project Using Solr Cloud](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1848547085/Cookbook+-+Deployment+Tools+ICM+7.10#Cookbook-DeploymentToolsICM7.10-Recipe-SetupprojectusingSolRCloud) (ICM version 7.10.10 or later)

[Cookbook - Deployment of Solr Search Adapters](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1880264943/Cookbook+-+Deployment+of+Solr+Search+Adapters) (ICM version 7.10.16.6 or later)

Intershop Commerce Management | SolrCloud Search Service Adapter | Solr Server |
|---|---|---|
7.10.10+ | 2.0.3 - 2.1.2 | 8.2.x |
7.10.10+ | 2.2.1 | 8.2 to 8.6.2 |
7.10.23+ - 7.10.30.0+ | 2.3.0 - 2.3.5 | 8.2 to 8.7.0 |
7.10.23+ - 7.10.30.0+ | 2.3.6 | 8.2 to 8.11 |

Due to [Solr™ Security News | 2021-12-10, Apache Solr affected by Apache Log4J CVE-2021-44228, ](https://solr.apache.org/security.html#apache-solr-affected-by-apache-log4j-cve-2021-44228)it is recommended to use Solr version >=8.11.1 or to follow the mitigation advices provided in the security news article.

Solr Versions 8.9.0 and higher only work with adapter version 2.3.6.

In 8.8.0 there is a backward compatibility issue with SolrJ, see [SOLR-15145](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SOLR-15145).

Solr 8.6.3 and higher requires additional configuration, see [ISSEA-167](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/o/58923) - Can't Create a Configset - Solr Cloud 8.6.3 8.7.

Listed Solr server versions were tested to work with the listed SolrCloud Adapter version. In general, minor and patch version upgrades of the Solr server are usually compatible with the adapter.


The following table lists the cartridges contained in the SolrCloud Adapter:

Cartridge | Description | Required |
|---|---|---|
ac_solr_cloud | The main implementation cartridge of the adapter defining and registering the search service. | |
ac_solr_cloud_bo | Additional functionality for the Commerce Management application. It provides additional configuration options for the index management, especially for suggest and spell-check. | |
solrcloud_config | Additional configuration to be deployed to share. |

The cartridges need to be deployed as a replacement of the Solr cartridges delivered by default (*ac_search_solr*, *ac_search_solr_bo*). These are part of the ICM component set *f_business* or (better to say) *intershop7* assembly. Starting with ICM version 7.10.16.6, the Responsive Starter Store is preconfigured to use the SolrCloud Search Service Adapter by default. Please see the [Cookbook - Deployment of Solr Search Adapters](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1880264943/Cookbook+-+Deployment+of+Solr+Search+Adapters) on how to setup your project using ICM 7.10.16.6 and higher. For previous ICM versions please follow the [Recipe - Setup Project Using Solr Cloud](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1848547085/Cookbook+-+Deployment+Tools+ICM+7.10#Cookbook-DeploymentToolsICM7.10-Recipe-SetupprojectusingSolRCloud). The deployment of the SolrCloud Adapter 2.0.0 requires additional deployment of `solrcloud_config`

. Add the `'com.intershop.solrcloud:solrcloud_config'`

line to the includes of the share host type.

The SolrCloud Search Service Adapter requires a Solr server that runs in cloud mode. Please see the [Guide - Deployment Solr Cloud Server](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1827480091/Guide+-+Deployment+Solr+Cloud+Server) on how to setup a Solr server for development or production. This guide also provides information on how to configure ICM to use a Solr server.

The data replication of indexes has changed with this adapter implementation. The standard ICM file replication is not used anymore to replicate the index data. Instead, the adapter comes with its own replication decorator that uses the backup/restore collection API functionality of Solr. Please see [Guide - Solr Replication](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1827645754/Guide+-+Solr+Replication) for the description and configuration of the index replication with the SolrCloud server.

Data replication with a Solr Cloud cluster requires to mount a shared file system at the same path on each Solr node. The ICM must configure the property `solr.cloudBackupLocation`

to point to this shared location.

To fix issues while closing `SolrClient`

objects in a cache implemented with the common ICM cache framework ([71243](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/o/71243) AlreadyClosedException), the component `SolrClientCache`

is no longer used and is deprecated.

If customized code is used, `SolrClientCache`

must be replaced with `SolrServerProvider`

instead.

ID | Title |
|---|---|
Index Replication fails - Invalid backup - Solr 8.9.0 | |
Replication for New Search Index/EDIT Deleted Search Index/LIVE fails | |
AlreadyClosedException when updating Solr search index (refix |

ID | Title |
|---|---|
AlreadyClosedException during Search Index Build |

Key | Summary |
|---|---|

The base ICM version of the adapter is now 7.10.23.1 The adapter is built and tested with this version. Thus it is recommended to update ICM 7.10.23.1 or higher to use this adapter.

With reworking the SolrCloudClient caching to use a single client object, the following changes were required. Custom code based on these classes must be changed:

`com.intershop.adapter.search_solr.server`

.`SolrServerProvider`


Removed methods: `get(SolrIndex index)`

and `get(Domain domain, String indexName, String node) `

Always use the added method `get()`

instead.

`com.intershop.adapter.search_solr.server.Server`

was moved to `com.intershop.adapter.search_solr.server.SolrServer`


Methods that send requests to the Solr server that require a collection name do have an additional string parameter. The collection name is to be retrieved with `SolrCollectionAdmin.getCollectionName(domainName, indexID)`

.

Instead of:

**Old Code**

QueryResponse queryResponse = provider.get(idx).query(solrQuery, METHOD.POST);

use:

**New Code**

String collectionName = SolrCollectionAdmin.getCollectionName(idx.getDomain().getDomainName(), idx.getIndexID()); QueryResponse queryResponse = provider.get().query(collectionName, solrQuery, METHOD.POST);

The `BackupAndRestoreSolrCloudIndexesDecorator`

was changed:

The deprecated method `com.intershop.adapter.search_solr.server.staging.BackupAndRestoreSolrCloudIndexesDecorator#readAndInstantiateSearchIndexesOfSite(Domain site)`

is removed.

The `BackupAndRestoreSolrCloudIndexesDecorator`

keeps track of the backed up edit system indexes now. Indexes that are deleted in the edit system are not available in the backup anymore and will be deleted in the live system as well. In addition, the restored collections are now checked to contain the document count of the backup. The respective methods for restoring the index in the decorator and in the `com.intershop.adapter.search_solr.server.impl.SolrCollectionAdmin`

do have an additional parameter `expectedNumFound`

and old restore methods are deprecated now. ([ISSEA-155](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/o/57855) - Data Replication Fails Trying to Restore Live Index Deleted on Edit)

Key | Summary |
|---|---|
| |
|

Key | Summary |
|---|---|
| |
|

The Solr Server version 8.6.0 in conjunction with data replication requires to set the backup location as an allowed path for the Solr server cluster. You can specify the allowed paths by setting a system property via environment in the startup script:

**solr.in.sh**

SOLR_OPTS="$SOLR_OPTS -Dsolr.allowPaths=/mnt/solr_backup"

Please see also the respective [Solr Upgrade Notes](https://lucene.apache.org/solr/guide/8_6/solr-upgrade-notes.html).

Key | Summary |
|---|---|

Key | Summary |
|---|---|
| |
|

Key | Summary |
|---|---|
| |
| |

Key | Summary |
|---|---|
| |
| |

Key | Summary |
|---|---|

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.