---
id: '330c4332f4867a19e8873e9df567d4f3'
title: 'Video Tutorial - Promotions Part 2'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/28E490'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:41.695208+00:00'
---
This document replaces the outdated article with the ID *23B366* and the title *Video Tutorials: Promotions with Intershop 7*.

Promotions are an important marketing instrument with the intention to push the sales and to increase the customer satisfaction. A promotion applies to predefined customer segments, products and time periods. Specific discounts like reduced prices, bonus products, free shipping etc. can be offered via a promotion. This video tutorial gives an introduction to the promotion messaging feature in Intershop 7 and shows how to configure it in the Commerce Management application.

Suitable promotion titles


Switch to the tab *Messaging*.

Go to * Webstore Messaging* and add an icon under

The icon will only be displayed in the product view in front of the title.

Type in the title under *Title*.

It is recommended to choose a short headword as the title. It will be displayed everywhere except for the detail popup message. Icons can also be included here.

If needed, type in a long title under *LongTitle*.

The long title is not mandatory and meant to be used in the detail popup message and the subtitle within the product view.

Click *Apply*.

Open the shopping cart and check it for the newly added icon, title and long title.

In newer ICM versions, the icon, title and long title will no longer be shown in the preview of the product. However, the title and long title of the promotion can be checked by clicking on *Details* after applying the promotion code in the shopping cart.

Switch to the tab *Messaging*.

Go to *Promotional Detail Popup Message* and add a rule description under *Rule Description*.

The rule description will be displayed underneath the long title in the detail message. It is a direct way to inform your consumers about your promotion rules.

If required, add a legal content description under *Legal Content*.

Click *Apply*.

As an alternative to *Rule Description *and *Legal Content*, you can link your promotion details on an external website. The corresponding steps are explained further below in this article.

Open the shopping cart, click on *Details* and check it for the new detail popup message.

In newer ICM versions, the rule description and legal content will no longer be shown in the preview of the product. However, they can be checked by clicking on *Details* after applying the promotion code in the shopping cart.

Switch to the tab *Messaging*.

Open the shopping cart and click on *Details*. The popup message should be replaced by the specified URL.

In newer ICM versions, the external URL will no longer be shown in the preview of the product. However, it can be checked by clicking on *Details* after applying the promotion code in the shopping cart.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.