---
id: '33fa619a48e2fbda3f43e3f0100a4027'
title: 'Reference'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/H24830'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:10.003470+00:00'
---
Object path expressions provide a simple way to navigate through persistent objects and relations between them, and to resolve the values of their fields for a given `root`

object and a path.

The Object Path Expression Language is a simple language that was initially designed to access persistent objects from within ISML templates without having to write Java code. The concept was later extended to make object path expressions available to other domains as well, such as pipelines, pipelets, and queries.

An object path consists of elements separated by colons:

`This:is:an:object:path`


The elements of the object path can be simple identifiers, consisting of alphanumeric characters, or they can be special expressions like parameter elements, null values or literals.

Object path expressions can contain elements with parameters. Such subexpressions are used like arguments for Java method calls. Parameter values are resolved as object path expressions as well.

Parameters directly follow their parent element (which represents a "method call") and are marked by round brackets. Multiple parameters can be separated by a comma.

This:is:an:object:path(This:is:an:argument:path) This:is:an:object:path("This is a constant") This:is:an:object:path(This:is:an:object:path("This is a constant")) A:B(C:D(E)):F(G, H:I(J))

An object path consists of at least one element, and can be of arbitrary length.

Note

Literals can only occur as parameters in object paths, such as in `Product:Price("EUR")`

. They cannot serve as root expressions, such as `This is a constant`

.

See section [Object Paths in ISML](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-ObjectPathExpressions-ObjectPathsISML) for details.

Literals are marked by double-quotes at the beginning and the end of the expression.

`"This is a constant string value."`


A literal can also be passed as a parameter:

`This:is:an:object:path("This is a constant parameter")`


If the literal represents a value other than a string, it may contain a class cast which is enclosed by round brackets within the quoted expression.

"(Integer)123" "(BigDecimal)123.45" "(java.text.DecimalFormat)#,###"

The type for the cast must be a Java class that can take a string as an argument in its constructor. If the type is not located in one of the default packages `java.lang`

, `java.math`

, `java.text`

or `com.intershop.beehive.foundation.quantity`

, the full class name (including package) must be specified.

If the cast type constructor takes more than one string argument, multiple arguments can be separated using square brackets. Each argument can be a literal type itself.

`"(Money)[USD][(BigDecimal)123.45]"`


Note

Java primitives such as `(int)123`

are not supported. The cast type must be an object type.

The object path expression language supports literals for Java classes using the syntax `(Class)<any Java class name>`

. For example, the following expressions are allowed:

OrderBO:Extension ("(Class)com.intershop.sellside.appbase.b2c.capi.order. OrderBOPaymentExtension") ServiceConfigurationRepository:Services ("(Class)com.intershop.component.orderimpex.capi.export.order. OrderExportService")

The expression `null`

or `NULL`

(case-insensitive) is a reserved word representing a null value.

The individual elements of object paths are mapped to invocations on Java objects or to lookups from the pipeline or session dictionaries. Which mappings are actually available depends on the position of the object path element inside the object path (see [Lookup Strategies](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-ObjectPathExpressions-LookStrat)).

When resolving an object path, the root object is determined first, and then each subsequent element of the object path is used to navigate from the current object to the next object, starting from the initial root object. The object resolved last is then the final result.

The following types of lookup operations for a single object path element are available:

`<ISLOOP>`

`get`

method that takes a string (or an object) as argument.`get`

Methods `get`

+ element name. If the object path element has parameters, the parameter values are resolved and passed as arguments to the underlying `get`

method.`is`

Methods `is`

+ element name. Such methods typically return a boolean value, e.g., `isValid()`

. If the object path element has parameters, the parameter values are resolved `is`

method.`has`

Methods `has`

method, e.g., the full method name is `has`

+ element name. If the object path element has parameters, the parameter values are resolved and passed as arguments to the `has`

method.`createIterator`

Methods `createIterator`

method, e.g., the full method name is `create`

+ `element name`

+ `Iterator`

. If the object path element has parameters, the parameter values are resolved `createIterator`

method.Collection Lookup

Java-collection classes like `java.util.Map`

and `java.util.Collection`

do not follow the JavaBean standard. Therefore, their properties are not accessible using ObjectPath. For this, an extra lookup method has been implemented

that supports some special mappings for Maps, Collections and Arrays. The following path names can be resolved and are mapped to their underlying Java implementation method:

Map | Collection | Array |
|---|---|---|
Values | Iterator | Size |
EntrySet | Size |
|
KeySet |
|
|
Size |
|
|

The available mappings of individual object path elements are combined to form so-called lookup strategies. A lookup strategy resolves a particular object path element or a complete object path by selecting and applying well-defined

lookup methods. Lookup strategies distinguish two different dimensions:

The object path framework is based on so-called *fallbacks*. In order to resolve an object path element, mappings are tried in the order determined by the fallback priority until a mapping was found that produced a valid result for the current path element.

This fallback mechanism is implemented by a fallback lookup strategy. The fallback strategy defines the applicable lookup methods and the order in which they must be tried.

When resolving the values for elements of an object path, the position of the element within the path is important, because it has an impact on the lookup methods that are applicable for resolving the element.

The position lookup strategy distinguishes three positions in a path. For each area, a fallback strategy (consisting of multiple lookup methods) is configured.

For example, in the expression

`This:is:an:object:path`


`This`

is the head, `is:an:object`

is the body, and `path`

is the tail.

The head position is particularly important to resolve the initial root object from where the rest of the path can be resolved. Therefore, the pipeline dictionary lookup and the session dictionary lookup methods are typical fallbacks for the head position.

In a loop context (e.g., ISML loops), the tail position is of special interest, as it must return a value that can be looped over (e.g. iterated). Therefore, it contains the `createIterator`

lookup method as a possible fallback. Such a lookup method does not make sense in the body part of a path, which is why it is missing there.

Note

Literals can only occur as parameters in object paths, such as in `Product:Price("EUR")`

. They cannot serve as root expressions, such as `This is a constant`

.

Note

The reflection lookup for an ISML object path does not support `null`

values for method arguments.

The reflection lookup has to recognize the type of the argument. When using `null`

values the lookup cannot distinguish between methods with the same name and number of arguments but different argument types.

This lookup configuration applies to all *simple* ISML expressions (except [ <ISLOOP> ](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1775688850/ISML+Tag+-+ISLOOP)), such as

`<ISPRINT>`

`<ISSET>`

Fallback Priority | Head Position | Body Position | Tail Position |
|---|---|---|---|
1 | Literal Value (full path) | Reflection | Reflection |
2 | Template Loop Stack | Extensible Object single attribute | Extensible Object single attribute |
3 | Pipeline Dictionary Lookup | Reflection | Reflection |
4 | Session Dictionary Lookup (with prefix | Map lookup | Map lookup |
5 |
| Collection lookup | Collection lookup |

Note

Content assist in Intershop Studio provides convenient access to object path expressions in templates.

This lookup configuration applies to ISML [ <ISLOOP> ](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1775688850/ISML+Tag+-+ISLOOP)expressions only.

Note

The loop node requires a result object that is iterable, such as a collection, an array or an iterator.

Therefore somewhat different fallbacks apply.

Fallback Priority | Head Position | Body Position | Tail Position |
|---|---|---|---|
1 | Literal Value (full path) | Reflection | Reflection |
2 | Template Loop Stack | Map lookup | Extensible Object multiple attributes |
3 | Pipeline Dictionary Lookup | Collection Lookup | Reflection |
4 | Session Dictionary Lookup (with prefix |
| Map lookup |
5 |
|
| Collection Lookup |

Object paths can be used to define aliases for input parameters of pipelets. Pipelets generally support three kinds of fallback for the whole object path:

Parameter values are resolved recursively, again starting with fallback priority 1.

Fallback Priority | Head Position | Body Position | Tail Position |
|---|---|---|---|
1 | Pipeline Dictionary Lookup | Reflection | Reflection |
2 |
| Extensible Object single attribute | Extensible Object single attribute |
3 |
| Reflection | Reflection |
4 |
| Map Lookup | Reflection |
5 |
|
| Map Lookup |
6 |
|
| Extensible Object multiple attributes |

Note

Content assist in Intershop Studio provides convenient access to object path expressions in pipelines.

For pipeline decision nodes, the values to be compared can be obtained using object path expressions. Generally, the same fallbacks as for [pipelet aliases](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-ObjectPathExpressions-PipeletInputAliases)apply, except that [literals](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-ObjectPathExpressions-Literals)and [null](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-ObjectPathExpressions-Null)cannot be used directly as decision value.

Pipeline loop nodes support three general fallbacks for the whole object path:

Note

The loop node requires a result object that is iterable, such as a collection, an array or an iterator.

Therefore somewhat different fallbacks apply.

Fallback Priority | Head Position | Body Position | Tail Position |
|---|---|---|---|
1 | Pipeline Dictionary Lookup | Reflection | Reflection |
2 |
| Map Lookup | Extensible Object multiple attributes |
3 |
|
| Reflection |
4 |
|
| Map Lookup |

The return value of a web service can have an alias that works similar to a pipelet alias. Therefore, the same fallback strategies apply here. See [Pipelet Input Aliases](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-ObjectPathExpressions-PipeletInputAliases)for details.

Object path expressions can be used in the Intershop Studio pipeline debugger to inspect the values of objects that are currently stored in the pipeline dictionary. For this, open the *Watch* view and enter an object path. The same syntax and capabilities applicable to [pipelet aliases](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-ObjectPathExpressions-PipeletInputAliases)can be used here.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.