---
id: '34e343f112593c5520cd93c19aa8c5a3'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/290M43'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:29:36.315634+00:00'
---
There are the following changes in basket/order related REST APIs to:

Get a stringent naming scheme (SalesPricingRO, ShippingPricingRO, TotalsRO)

Avoid errors in generated Swagger schema (MoneyRO, QuantityRO)

Be prepared for future use (TaxItemRO, JurisdictionRO, ImpositionRO)

|
|
|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
7.10.7.3 | Order Submission/OrderHistory (beta)
This API is a beta version and still subject to changes. |
| Attribute | incompatible | |
Attribute | incompatible | ||||
| Attribute | incompatible | |||
Attribute | incompatible | ||||
| Attribute | incompatible | The line item price (single base price x quantity) w/o any discounts | ||
Attribute | incompatible | The line item price (single base price x quantity) w granted item value discounts | |||
Attribute | incompatible | The base price of one (single base price / quantity) single item w/o any discounts | |||
Attribute | incompatible | The base price of one item w/ granted item discounts broken down to one item | |||
Attribute | incompatible | The remainder of the operation that calculates the | |||
| Attribute | incompatible | The accumulated shipping costs of the line item w/o any shipping discounts. | ||
| Attribute | incompatible | The accumulated line item totals w/o any discounts | ||
Attribute | incompatible | The accumulated line item total w/ all granted item value discounts | |||
Attribute | incompatible | The accumulated shipping costs/charges w/o any discounts | |||
Attribute | incompatible | The accumulated shipping costs/charges w/ all granted shipping discounts | |||
New attribute | compatible | Accumulated payment costs of the order | |||
| New attribute | compatible | First part of addressee's company name | ||
New attribute | compatible | Second part of addressee's company name | |||
| New attribute | compatible | For future use | ||
New attribute | compatible | For future use | |||
New record | compatible | For future use | |||
| New attribute | compatible | For future use | ||
Attribute | incompatible | ||||
| New attribute | compatible | For future use | ||
New attribute | compatible | For future use |

|
|
|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
7.10.40.4 7.10.38.21-LTS | Address Check REST API 1.1.0 | Address | The read-only properties Increase the API version from 1.0.0 to 1.1.0 | compatible |

|
|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|---|
7.10.24.1 | authentication | path | Value of path in UserTokenResource (no API) of endpoint | Adapt urls in client calls. Use ' |

|
|
|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
7.10.40.4 7.10.38.21-LTS | Basket REST API 0.2.0 | Address | The read-only properties Increase the API version from 0.1.0 to 0.2.0 | compatible |

In the Storefront Basket V1 REST APIs there are the following changes:

Get a stringent naming scheme (`LineItemRO`

, `LineItemTotalsRO`

, `BasketTotalsRO`

).

Simplify handling of custom attributes (`ExtensibleRO`

).

|
|
|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
7.10.7.3 | Basket V1 (beta)
This API is a beta version and still subject to changes. |
| Attribute | incompatible | The line item price (single base price x quantity) w/o any discounts |
Attribute | incompatible | The line item price (single base price x quantity) w granted item value discounts | |||
Attribute | incompatible | The base price of one (single base price / quantity) single item w/o any discounts | |||
Attribute | incompatible | The base price of one item w/ granted item discounts broken down to one item | |||
Attribute | |||||
| Element has been renamed to | incompatible | |||
Attribute | |||||
| Attribute | incompatible | The accumulated line item totals w/o any discounts | ||
Attribute | incompatible | The accumulated line item total w/ all granted item value discounts | |||
Attribute | incompatible | The accumulated shipping costs/charges w/o any discounts | |||
Attribute | incompatible | The accumulated shipping costs/charges w/ all granted shipping discounts | |||
Attribute | |||||
| Method | incompatible | Attributes are contained in the |

Storefront Business Customer User List / User Item REST API was extended:

Business Customer Users List resource GET method previously showed the current logged user. It was changed to list all actual users of the customer;

Added POST method to Business Customer Users List resource to create one or multiple new users for the customer;

Added DELETE method to Business Customer User Item resource to remove customer's user;

Altered PUT method of Business Customer User Item resource - previously it only allowed the current logged user to change their own attributes; now admin user can change values of other users which belong to the same customer.

|
|
|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
7.10.7.3 | Business Customer User List / User Item | UserRO | New method | compatible | |
SMBCustomerUserRO | New methods:
| compatible | |||
New classes in app_sf_rest_smb cartridge |
| compatible |

|
|
|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
7.10.19.2 | CMS REST API | The REST API documentation was extended to explain the proper usage of personalized requests for the CMS REST API. | compatible | ||
7.10.18.1 | CMS REST API | PageTreeResource | Resource is introduced to expose the page hierarchy. | compatible |

|
|
|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
7.10.40.4 | Configuration V1 (beta) | ConfigurationRO | A new section " { "data": { ... "marketing": { "id": "marketing", "newsletterSubscriptionEnabled": true }, ... } The flag is true when an e-mail marketing provider is set up, so that the newsletter subscription feature is enabled and can be used. | compatible | |
7.10.20.0 | Configuration V1 (beta)
This API is a beta version and still subject to changes. | ConfigurationRO | Change of the response data structure from list to map representation.
{ "data": [ { "applicationType": "intershop.B2CResponsive", "default": true, "id": "application", "urlIdentifier": "-" },... ] }
{ "data": { "application": { "applicationType": "intershop.B2CResponsive", "default": true, "id": "application", "urlIdentifier": "-" },... } } | incompatible |

|
|
|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
7.10.38.15-LTS | Cost Center | CostCenterUserRO | New field "active" which indicates whether the user is active or not. | compatible |

|
|
|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
7.10.40.4 7.10.38.21-LTS | Customer REST API 1.2.0 | Address | The read-only properties Increase the API version from 1.1.0 to 1.2.0 | compatible | |
7.10.15.0 | customer/{customerKey}/credentials/password | CustomerPasswordRO | New mandatory attribute | compatible | In order to keep the old behavior it is possible to make currentPassword optional by setting"PasswordUpdateSkipOldPasswordValidation" preference to "true". |
CredentialsHandler | Signature of method validatePassword changed from validatePassword(UserBO userBO, String password) to validatePassword(UserBO userBO, CustomerPasswordRO passwordRO). | incompatible |

|
|
|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
7.10.39 | Notifications | CustomerProductNotificationResource CustomerProductNotificationsResource | "Deprecated" annotations are removed from API calls | compatible | |
7.10.19 | Notifications | CustomerProductNotificationResource CustomerProductNotificationsResource | API calls were falsely set to deprecated | compatible |

|
|
|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
7.10.40.4 7.10.38.21-LTS | Order REST API 0.2.0 | Address | The read-only properties Increase the API version from 0.1.0 to 0.2.0 | compatible |

|
|
|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
7.10.41.8-LTS | Order REST API 1.2.3 | Totals | Attribute | compatible |

|
|
|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
7.10.40 | Product | ProductListResource | API version was increased to 1.7
| compatible | Example: /products?attrs=endOfLife,lastOrderDate |
7.10.40 | Product | ProductsResource | Now, the following extended attributes are supported: customAttributes,reviews,shippingMethods,averageRating,roundedAverageRating | compatible | Example: /products/12345?attrs=customAttributes,reviews,shippingMethods,averageRating,roundedAverageRating |
7.10.39 | Product and Category | API version was increased to 1.6 | compatible | See details in the following lines | |
7.10.39 | Product | ProductListResource |
| compatible | Example: /products?attrs=minOrderQuantity,maxOrderQuantity,stepQuantity |
7.10.39 | Product | ProductsResource | The | incompatible | Example: /products/12345?attrs=seoAttributes |
7.10.39 | Category | CategoryRO | The "Show in Menu" flag of a category was previously only returned in the REST response when it was "true". Now it is also returned if it is "false". | compatible | |
7.10.38.9-LTS | Product | ProductsResource | Default categories that are unavailable on the REST interface are no longer included in REST responses. | compatible | The defaultCategory property is omitted and not included in the response. The PWA treats this attribute as optional. Other UIs may need to be updated. |
7.10.38.9-LTS | Product | ProductsResource | SEOMetaAttributes of the product resource returned in a REST call are by default no longer provided by the DetermineMetaTags pipeline. | compatible | The pipeline has been replaced by the java implementation in ProductSEOMetaAttributesHandlerImpl. To return to the pipeline implementation, use PipelineBasedProductSEOMetaAttributesHandlerImpl instead. |
7.10.38.9-LTS | Product | ProductListResource | A configurable limit for returned products per request was added. If a higher | compatible | Follow-up to the change below: If absolutely necessary, you can adjust the limit using the property |
7.10.38.9-LTS | Product | ProductListResource | Limit of 200 for returned products per request added. If a higher value is used as a query parameter "amount", an exception is thrown. | incompatible | This is a security measure to avoid unnecessarily high load on the ICM. For PWAs with paging, this is not an issue. |
7.10.38.9-LTS | Product | ProductsResource ProductListResource | Authenticated calls for the resources | incompatible |
|
7.10.38.9-LTS | Product | ProductListResource | In case no search index is found, error code 503 is returned. | compatible | Removed fallback to database search. If the database search has been customized in your project, you can simply switch back to the old |
7.10.38.9-LTS | Product | ProductHandler(Impl) |
| compatible | |
7.10.35.1 | Product | FilterCollectionRO | In case no search index is found, error code 503 is returned, instead of "500 server error". | compatible | |
7.10.27.0 | Product | ProductListResource | The | incompatible | Previously the Now the behavior is corrected. In case the
|
7.10.27.0 | Product / Promotion | ProductPromotionResource | Improved caching for resource "/products/<sku>/promotions" | compatible | The result list of promotions is now personally cached; for personalized promotions a "spgid" matrix parameter is mandatory, either as part of "products" or "promotions". The caching time now depends on the end dates of involved promotions (valid until first promotion becomes invalid). If "spgid" is missing for authorized requests the result for anonymous users is returned. |
7.10.26.2 | Product | ProductListResource | Parameter | compatible | The parameter |
7.10.23.0 | Product | ProductsResource ProductFiltersResource | New query parameter | compatible |
|
7.10.23.0 | Product | ProductsResource ProductFiltersResource | if configured: new sort order of results | compatible | Variation products on variation master pages, as well as in the REST API (
Note: If this is not done, the sorting remains as it is right now. |
7.10.23.0 | Product | ProductListResource | Support for multiple comma-separated IDs for parameter New field | compatible | If multiple IDs are given, then in the result, the field |
7.10.23.0 | Product | AttributeGroupRO | New field | compatible | |
7.10.21 | Product | SearchIndexFilterResource SearchIndexFilterListResource | Resources are now deprecated. | compatible | |
7.10.21 | Product | ProductFiltersResource | Resource is introduced. | compatible | A new resource |
7.10.21.0 | Product | ProductRO | New field | compatible | |
7.10.18.0 | Category | CategoryRO | Category endpoint now support category references as a category id, replacing the previous | incompatible | |
7.10.17.0 | Product | ProductRO | New query parameter New field | compatible | |
7.10.17.0 | Product | AttachmentRO | New field | compatible | |
7.10.17.0 | Category and CategoryList | CategoryRO | New query parameter | compatible | |
7.10.15.2 | Product List | ProductRO | New attribute in attrs section | compatible | |
7.10.15.2 | Category and CategoryList | CategoryRO | Add functionality for caching the /categories call | compatible | |
7.10.10.2 | Product / Product Line Item | DefaultCategoryRO | Extend | compatible | |
7.10.9.0 | Product and Category List | LinkRO | New attribute in attrs section: | compatible | |
7.10.5.4 | Product List / Product Line Item | LinkRO | New attribute in attrs section: | compatible | |
7.10.5.3 | Product List | AttributeGroupRO | New method | compatible | Related: Adding flag in the backoffice if attribute groups should be available in REST. |
7.10.5.3 | Product and Category List | LinkRO | New attributes in attrs section: | compatible |

|
|
|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
7.10.38.17-LTS | Product Price V1
Due to the gained product maturity, the beta status of this API was lifted. | ProductPriceResource | In order to fully support address-specific prices (gross prices based on address-specific taxes) it is now possible to pass "shipFromAddress" and "shipToAddress" as additional parameters. Both parameters could either be an address uuid or URN. The parameters are optional. If they are missing and there is no preferred shipping address for a certain customer, the default tax rate is used to calculate gross prices (if requested). | compatible (extend API) | |
7.10.38.9-LTS | Product Price V1 (beta)
This API is a beta version and still subject to changes. | ProductPriceResource | Now RetailSets and Variation Master products are fully supported: RetailSets:
Variation Master:
| compatible (extend API) | Still not supported:
|
7.10.32.0-LTS | Product Price V1 (beta)
This API is a beta version and still subject to changes. | ProductPriceResource | A new Product Price REST API has been implemented which allows an uncached access of product prices including scaled prices. The following features are supported:
| compatible (new API) | Not supported:
|

|
|
|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
7.10.35.1 | Promotion | PromotionResource | Improved caching for resource "/promotions/<promotion-id>" | compatible | The promotion details are now also personally cached like the promotion lists. Details for a promotion can only be retrieved when the promotion is accessible to the requested user. |
7.10.27.0 | Promotion | PromotionResource | Improved caching for resource "/promotions" | compatible | The result list of promotions is now personally cached; for personalized promotions a "spgid" matrix parameter is mandatory, either as part of "products" or "promotions". The caching time now depends on the end dates of involved promotions (valid until first promotion becomes invalid). If "spgid" is missing for authorized requests the result for anonymous users is returned. |

|
|
|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
7.10.38.14-LTS | Rating & Review | ReviewItemResource (ReviewRO) | The item details of a review now contain the boolean attribute | compatible (extend API) |
|
7.10.38.14-LTS | Rating & Review | ReviewItemResource (ReviewRO) | The item details of a review now contain a new processable "statusCode". It reflects the status of the review. | compatible (extend API) | Field "status" remains unchanged. |
7.10.38.14-LTS | Rating & Review | ReviewListResource | When new reviews are created, now title and content of a review are checked for profanity. | no API change |

|
|
|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
7.10.40.4 7.10.38.21-LTS | Recurring Order (Subscriptions) REST API 1.1.0 | Address | The read-only properties | compatible |

|
|
|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
7.10.38.15-LTS | /customers/{CustomerKey}/users/{CustomerItemUserKey}/requisitions/{RequisitionKey} | RequisitionRO | New field "systemRejectErrors" which contains the reasons for system rejection of a requisition | compatible | |
7.10.36.0 | /customers/{CustomerKey}/users/{CustomerItemUserKey}/requisitions/{RequisitionKey} | RequisitionRO |
| compatible | Should be used from RequisitionRO, instead of RequisitionRO.approvalStatus from now on |
7.10.25.0 | /customers/{CustomerKey}/users/{CustomerItemUserKey}/requisitions/{RequisitionKey} | ApprovalStatusRO | field "status" which was the status code before is now stored in field "statusCode" and the field "status" now contains a localized status text | ||
7.10.25.0 | /customers/{CustomerKey}/users/{CustomerItemUserKey}/requisitions/{RequisitionKey} | ApprovalStatusChangeRO | field "status" was renamed to "statusCode" |

|
|
|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
7.10.15.0 | security | password | Added new sub-resource "password" allowing to set new password - part of the "Forgot Password" feature. New REST resource com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.credentials.PasswordResetResource with one POST method resetPassword. New resource object com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resourceobject.PasswordResetRO New interface com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.credentials.handler.PasswordResetHandler | compatible | |
security | reminder | Changed PasswordReminderResource to require security question answer, firstName and lastName only in case Security Question feature is activated. | compatible |

|
|
|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
7.10.38.27-LTS 7.10.40.4 | Wish List REST API 1.1.0 | PublicWishlistListResource | The maximum number of public wish lists returned by the The API version has been increased from 1.0.0 to 1.1.0. | compatible |

|
|
|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
7.10.38.14-LTS | User Details | UserResource (UserRO) | The details of a user (Contact Center Account Representative) now contain the string attribute | compatible (extend API) | |
7.10.38.28-LTS / 7.10.41.0 | Application | ApplicationResource (ApplicationRO) | The field An additional attribute | compatible (extend API) | |
7.10.41.15-LTS | Application | ApplicationResource (ApplicationRO) | An attribute | compatible (extend API) |

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.