---
id: '355691717d3c1caef0df9fbb1d3f6bb5'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2G5870'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:38:06.878287+00:00'
---
This document deals with the intentions and concepts behind the file based order export to the XML format. The XML files with the exported orders are transmitted to 3rd party systems. Furthermore, the data that needs to be exported may differ among different customer deployments. This way, Intershop 7 provides a full-featured order export out of the box. An administrator should consider the content of the present document rather as a blueprint of how customized export scenarios may be realized. So the Intershop 7 order export is referred to as an order export reference implementation in the further course of this document.

Intershop 7 uses the concepts of the [Order Export Framework](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/47788033138/Concept+-+Order+Export+Framework) to provide the file based XML export that is available out-of-the box.

If Intershop 7 has to meet additional customer-related requirements, the extension concept described later in this document can be used to export additional data. Alternatively a new, completely different order export implementation has to be developed to meet those additional requirements.

Note

Basically, all data can be exported that are retrievable by accessing methods of related business objects and their extensions. It has to be noted that not all data, like certain product information of order line items, has to exist at the time the order export is triggered. Product information might be changed, or products might be removed in the meantime.

The order export consists of the following steps (see diagram above):

Enable the service in Organization Management Application:

Create the service for your organization in the ICM:

For configuration, type a valid file location, and prefix, e.g., c:\temp\orders.

The path should be provided as absolute path. A relative path will be interpreted as starting from the <server>\local\engine\nodemanager.

However, there is the possibility of using space holders. Therefore, these three ICM environment variables can be used: ${IS_HOME}, ${IS_SHARE} and ${IS_TEMP}, e.g. ${IS_TEMP}\export\orders.

Create export to run:

Select your desired service configuration, e.g., OrderExportService which was created in the previous step.

To repeat an export, only step 7 is required.

Note

In the Commerce Management application you can also create an export at the channel level. Here only orders of this channel are exported.

The following elements of the order export reference implementation have to be considered:

`javax.xml.bind.annotation.*`

annotations in XML binding classes. (Java->XSD) - Java classes, their attributes and methods are provided with annotations that control the transformation. A corresponding XML schema can be generated with the schemagen command line tool accompanied with J2SE. Please have a look at the [Cookbook - Order Export | Recipe: 3rd Party System Imports Orders Exported from IS7](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1835841531/Cookbook+-+Order+XML+Export#Cookbook-OrderXMLExport-2Recipe%3A3rdPartySystemImportsOrdersExportedfromIS73rdPartySystemImportOrders).

This section outlines how to extend the export by adding an additional implementation.

Have a look at *ac_order_export_xml\staticfiles\cartridge\components\instances.component*. Here you can see how to instantiate a builder that can have sub-builders by using the fulfill statement. In this way the XML export file is constructed.

For example: The `OrderShippingDiscountsBuilderImpl`

was introduced later. It should be placed in `order-summary -> order-pricing -> pricing -> shipping-discounts`

. The tags `order-pricing -> pricing`

already exist. Therefore, inside the fulfill tag of `OrderExportXML-OrderPricing-Pricing`

the new `OrderShippingDiscountsBuilderImpl`

was placed. By linking to the parent builder, you can achieve that the outer XML is left out if the inner XML is empty.

The `OrderShippingDiscountsBuilderImpl`

class gets a BusinessObject from the parent handler.

Use BO classes to determine data you need for this export.

The XML is represented in this case by the `DiscountXML`

. The outer brace is the `ShippingDiscountsXML`

class.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.