---
id: '35f2dc6f2b173d9d6360f246b931c1a1'
title: 'Creating Variation Type'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3K2240'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:44.667112+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/3K2240

# Creating Variation Type

To define a product variation type:
-
Select the intended management context from the context selection box, then select Catalogs | Variation Types.
This displays a list of all variation types currently defined for the current repository. Click on the name of a variation type to edit its settings.

-
Click New to create a new variation type.
This opens the New Variation Type dialog.

-
Select a language and provide a name.
The variation type name is used for internal purposes only.

-
Provide a product attribute name and an attribute display name as well as possible attribute values.
Note that the system uses the attribute display name you provide here for display purposes only, for example in the drop-down list used to offer variation products to storefront users. The product attribute name determines name and ID of the respective attribute on the variation product.

-
Provide data type and possible attribute values.
A separate variation product will be created for each possible attribute value. When selecting the Localizable check box, the attribute generated on the variation products can define values relative to a locale.

-
Click Apply to save your settings.
Otherwise, click Cancel to discard your changes.


## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.