---
id: '360530a7f8948d61966b1da8773dd977'
title: 'Public Release Note'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2858R1'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:39:30.141192+00:00'
---
This delivery and the accompanying documentation are valid for the following combinations of software versions:

| Intershop Commerce Management | Klarna Connector |
|---|---|
| 7.8.2.0+ | 6.1.7 |
| 7.9.3.1+ | 6.1.7 |
| 7.10.2.2+ | 6.1.7 |

This version of the connector is based on the Payment API 2.8.0.

The next table provides information about the cartridges included in the package. Not all of these cartridges are required.

| Cartridge | Description | Required |
|---|---|---|
ac_payment_klarna | Includes all of the base functionality and business logic which is used both in the storefront and the back-office applications. | |
ac_payment_klarna_bo | Includes functionality which is available solely in the Commerce Management application. | |
as_payment_klarna_responsive_sf | The sole purpose of this cartridge is to enable the Klarna payment connector for the following application types:
| |
ac_payment_klarna_responsive_sf | The cartridge provides some functionality which is relevant in the workflow of the responsive storefront only. E.g., when the invoicing country of the basket is changed irrelevant Klarna payment instruments are deleted. |

The source for "*as_payment_klarna_responsive_sf*" and *" ac_payment_klarna_responsive_sf*" is available here

...YOUR_REPOSITORY.../releases/com.intershop.public.source/s_payment_klarna/6.1.7/zips/s_payment_klarna-zip-src-6.1.7.zip

The Klarna connector offers two payment options - invoice and part payment. With the first option the customer will pay with a single invoice. With the second option the customer will pay by several installments. Both payment methods come as a separate services and should be configured separately. Below is a sample payment form filled by an end user for invoice payments:

The payment form differs for the [supported countries](https://knowledge.intershop.com#supportedCountries).

When the user fills in the payment form correctly he/she is redirected to the order review page. Later on, the system will attempt direct authorization by contacting the Klarna system. The user never needs to leave the site of the merchant. Sensitive payment data (e.g., credit card numbers) is neither required, nor stored or transmitted. After the order has been completed, the transaction is usually authorized. The connector supports the following operations in the merchant back-office:

| Operation | Description | Valid for transaction state |
|---|---|---|
| Cancel | Cancels the money reservation. The payment is deleted and no further operations are available. | authorized |
| Capture | Captures the reserved amount. The merchant receives the payment. The transaction is captured now. | authorized |
| Reduce | Reduces the reserved amount. The transaction is still authorized. | authorized |
| Refund | Refunds a captured amount. Multiple refunds are possible. | captured, refunded |


The next figure illustrates the possible changes of transaction states during the normal transaction flow.

Due to some fraud checks Klarna cannot authorize some of the payment requests immediately. These transactions are set to a *Pending* state. The connector checks the state of the pending transactions in the Klarna system regularly by using a background job. Depending on the result of the transaction check a transaction may be cancelled, authorized or left in a pending state. Usually the final state (authorized or cancelled) is resolved in less than 24 hours. The next figure illustrates this workflow.

The merchant cannot do anything with pending transactions. The merchant may configure the system to automatically cancel any pending transactions. In this case the connector will put the transaction in a queue for a delayed cancellation request. By default the transaction stays in this queue at least 5 seconds. This is necessary for technical reasons - the Klarna system cannot cancel pending orders immediately - it needs a few seconds to put the transaction in an up-to-date state.

The job that polls the state of the pending transactions is called *KlarnaCheckOrderStatus* by default. It is created by the database initialization script located in `ac_payment_klarna`

. It is global for all shops that use Klarna and is installed in the root domain. It is disabled by default and should be configured according to the project requirements and expectations. In the demo scenarios it is recommended to run the job manually. The configuration may be completed in the SMC as shown on the next figure.

The job may be deleted and/or manually recreated. Its properties are:

By default the job will be installed in the root domain but this is not required. The job should run well in any domain.

Klarna does not operate in all countries. The following countries may be supported - Germany, Austria, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark.

The corresponding currencies should be supported too. E.g., if the invoicing country is Norway then Norwegian krone should be enabled in the shop.

The so called *PClasses* are little pieces of data formatted as JSON which determine what kind of payment options are available under certain conditions (e.g., pay once in 14 days, pay once after 6 months, etc). *PClasses* are stored in files in the shared file system following the naming convention below:

`<country>_<currency>_PClasses.json`


Here:

Example of a valid *PClass* file name for Germany and Euro: `DE_EUR_PClasses.json`


The most important properties that are stored in a *PClass* and in its name which have semantics for the connector are:

All other properties are used for display purposes only and do not influence the workflow.

Below is a sample *PClass* which determines that Klarna part payment is available in Germany for payments in EUR:

{ "description": "Ratenkauf", "months": 24, "startfee": 0.0, "invoicefee": 1.95, "interestrate": 14.95, "minamount": 0.0, "country": "DE", "id": 3113, "type": 1, "expire": 0, "eid": 1395 }

*PClasses* affect the available payment options in the storefront. If there is no PClass for a given country/currency pair the payment with Klarna may be disabled.

Please note: there is one implicit *PClass* that is never downloaded - this is payment by invoice in 14 days. The system considers that it is always present although it is not represented as a file.

The *PClasses* are downloaded form Klarna when the connector is "initialized". The connector is initialized when the "Initialize" button in the back office is pressed. This is described separately in this document. The end user chooses a PClass which is represented as a payment option in the storefront UI.

The forms in which the user enters payment data are different for each supported country. In some countries the so called SSN is required. This is the personal number of the customer (people are assigned unique numbers in these countries). The connector may send a special request to Klarna which verifies that the SSN is correct and downloads the invoicing address registered for this number. Custom projects may implement some fraud checks based on the downloaded address. Currently there is an appropriate extension mechanism which can be utilized during the authorization process by custom projects. Nevertheless additional development is needed. Only a dummy implementation is provided with the standard connector.

The customer may download Klarna invoices of captured transactions in the first 30 days after the transaction had been captured. The download link is available in the My Account section as shown on the next screenshot.

After 30 days the link becomes inactive.

The merchant may define how Klarna invoices should be sent to the clients. This is a setting defined in the configuration of the payment service (in other words it is channel specific). Available options currently are:

Note

The support for any of these may be specific to the type of the Klarna merchant account.

A payment method in ICM may be considered as:

The table below describes the situation in which Klarna is considered restricted or not applicable.

| State | NOT APPLICABLE | RESTRICTED | Comment |
|---|---|---|---|
| The basket display type in the storefront is NET. | |||
| There is no PClass for the country and currency code combination of the current basket. | The country of the invoice address is considered. But anyway the invoice and shipping addresses should be in the same country. | ||
| The basket is covered by another payment instrument. | |||
| Baskets with multiple shipping. | Multiple shipping is not supported by Klarna. | ||
| Incompatible shipping and invoice address. | This restriction applies if the shipping and invoice addresses are completely or partially different. Depending on the UI based configuration the addresses should be either completely the same or they should belong to the same user (first and last name, country and phone have to be the same). If this is not the case then the restriction is applied. If Klarna is restricted or not applicable is configurable. |

* This section outlines some of the basic setup steps.*

Note

Managing and deploying the Klarna Service Connector requires a continuous integration environment set up, configured as described in [Cookbook - Setup CI Infrastructure](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822571078/Cookbook+-+Setup+CI+Infrastructure).

Warning

The Klarna Service connector comes with a dummy merchant account. It will not work out-of-the box even in the demo scenario. Please obtain a merchant ID and shared secret from Klarna in advance.

To add the Klarna Service Connector to your Intershop Commerce Management system, it is possible to:

Below is a hint about what may be added to the build.gradle file of the assembly:

cartridges { def storefrontCartridges = [ 'app_sf_responsive', 'app_sf_responsive_cm', 'app_sf_responsive_b2c', 'app_sf_responsive_smb', 'as_responsive', 'app_sf_responsive_b2b', 'app_sf_responsive_costcenter', 'as_responsive_b2b', // this are the two cartridges, which we delivered in source code and you have to add these files to your responsive source project 'ac_payment_klarna_responsive_sf', 'as_payment_klarna_responsive_sf' ] include(*(storefrontCartridges.collect { project(":$it") }), in:[development, test, production]) ….. //standard klarna provider def klarnaPaymentProvider = [ 'ac_payment_klarna', 'ac_payment_klarna_bo' ] include (*(klarnaPaymentProvider.collect {"com.intershop.services.payment_klarna:$it"}), in: [development, test, production]) order = listFromAssembly(baseAssembly) + storefrontCartridges + klarnaPaymentProvider } ... assemblyBuild { database { inherit(baseAssembly) initCartridges = ['ac_payment_klarna'] } }

Furthermore you have to adapt the ac_payment_klarna_responsive_sf/build.gradle file in the following way:

apply plugin: 'static-cartridge' intershop { displayName = 'Adapter - Payment Klara - Responsive SF integration' } dependencies { // compile project(':ac_payment_klarna') --> will be replaced by: compile group: 'com.intershop.services.payment_klarna', name: 'ac_payment_klarna' // compile group: 'com.intershop.responsive', name: 'app_sf_responsive' --> will be replaced by: compile project(':app_sf_responsive') }

Now you have to insert the following lines into file: „intershopBuild.version“

com.intershop.services.payment_klarna:ac_payment_klarna = 6.1.7 com.intershop.services.payment_klarna:ac_payment_klarna_bo = 6.1.7

For details about adding cartridges to an assembly see the corresponding recipe in the [Cookbook - Gradle Assembly Tools (valid to 7.8)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1788155636).

Of course, a new assembly may be created that inherits from ICM base assembly - see the corresponding recipe in the [Cookbook - Gradle Assembly Tools (valid to 7.8)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1788155636).

There are two cartridges that contain database initialization scripts. The following table summarizes the details.

| Cartirdge | Comment |
|---|---|
ac_payment_klarna | This cartridge contains script that creates a background job that polls the statuses of pending payment transactions. The job is called KlarnaCheckOrderStatus by default and is global for the system. It processes all the channels in which Klarna is enabled. It is disabled by default. Running DBInit for this cartridge may be skipped but in this case the job should be created manually in the SMC if it is necessary to handle pending transactions. The job properties are: Default Name (may be changed): KlarnaCheckOrderStatus Default Description (may be changed): Check all Klarna orders having the payment status pending. Pipeline Name: ProcessKlarnaCheckOrderStatus Pipeline Start Node: Start By default the job will be installed in the root domain but this is not required. The job should run fairly well in any domain.
|

The connector may be initialized automatically as part of the CI process (initialization cartridges are specified in the `build.gradle`

of the assembly). Or manually if ever needed, e.g., `dbinit -t=ac_payment_klarna`


Before deploying the new assembly to a test or production environment, you may want to adjust some file-based configurations required by the Klarna Service Connector. The table below explains the meaning of these properties.

| Property | Description | Values (sample) |
|---|---|---|
| intershop.payment.KLARNA_INVOICE.currencies | A comma separated list with all currencies that may be supported by the Klarna Invoice service. | EUR, SEK, DKK, NOK |
| intershop.payment.KLARNA_INSTALLMENTS.currencies | A comma separated list with all currencies that may be supported by the Klarna Installments service. | EUR, SEK, DKK, NOK |
| intershop.payment.KLARNA.country.<currency> | A comma separated list of countries in which a given currency is supported. For example:
defines that Euro is used in Germany, Netherlands, Austria and Finland. | DE, NL, AT, FI |
| intershop.payment.KLARNA.check.pno.countries | A comma separated list of countries in which SSN check is performed. At the time of writing this is possible only in Sweden. | SE |
| intershop.payment.KLARNA.check.pno.no.address.fails | Defines the behavior of the dummy SSN check implementation. If set to true and address cannot be downloaded for the given SSN then the authorization will fail. | true or false |
| intershop.payment.KLARNA.klarnaDebug | Should be used only during development. Activates the built in debug of the Klarna library. Prints messages in the standard output. | true or false, might be commented |
| intershop.payment.KLARNA.testGatewayDownloadURLPattern | The pattern used to generate the download invoice link on the test gateway. Contains a placeholder for the invoice number. |
|

`NOTAPPLICABLE`

or `RESTRICTED`

.`NOTAPPLICABLE`

or `RESTRICTED`

.Defines the source of the `careOf`

address field. For example this might be the Street3 (or Address3) field of the ICM address representation. If commented out, no `careOf`

will be ever sent to Klarna. Possible values if defined:

`Address.LINE1`

- maps the `careOf`

field to `street1`

ICM address field;`Address.LINE2`

- maps the `careOf`

field to `street2`

ICM address field;`Address.LINE3`

- maps the `careOf`

field to `street3`

ICM address field;`careOf`

is not sent to KlarnaPlease note, that this mapping may not function correctly for some fields if restriction on different addresses is activated.

`Address.LINE1 or Address.LINE2 or Address.LINE3`

Defines the source of the `houseNumber`

address field. For example this might be the Street3 (or Address3) field of the ICM address representation. If commented out, the value of the field will be retrieved from the payment instrument populated by the user. If there is no such value then its resolution will be skipped. Possible values if defined are the same as the values for key `intershop.payment.KLARNA.src.careOf`

.


Please note, that this mapping may not function correctly for some fields if restriction on different addresses is activated.

`Address.LINE1 or Address.LINE2 or Address.LINE3`

According to [Recipe: Change Deployed File Content With Filters](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1783302208#Cookbook-GradleDeploymentTools(7.4CI-ICM7.7)-ApplyContentFilter) this setting may be overridden by <IS_SHARE>/system/config/cartridges/ac_payment_klarna.properties.

For details about adding new configuration files, see [Recipe: Deploy Custom Files](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1783302208#Cookbook-GradleDeploymentTools(7.4CI-ICM7.7)-DeployCustomFiles).

In the Organization Management application, the managed services corresponding to the Klarna Connector are by default named *Klarna Invoice* and* Klarna Installments*. The first one is used for payment by invoice (one payment per purchase), the second one is used for payment by installments. The services have to be enabled for the Sales Organization in which the connector will be used. This is shown on the next screenshot:

The Klarna Connector requires some post-deployment configurations in Organization Management and Commerce Management. For details about enabling a payment service, see - [Recipe: Enable a Payment Service](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1811743798#Cookbook-Payment(validto7.7)-Recipe-EnableaPaymentService). The following screenshot shows the configuration UI.

The table below explains the settings that may be set at the payment service. The configurations are the same for both the *Klarna Installments* and* Klarna Invoice* services.

| Name | Description |
|---|---|
| Merchant ID | Identifier of the merchant in the Klarna system. Assigned by Klarna on opening of merchant account. This identifier is not secret information. |
| Shared Secret | A shared secret key. Assigned by Klarna. Should be kept secret and should be known only to Klarna and to the merchant. This shared secret is used for authentication in a custom authentication schema. At the time of writing this is:
|
| Use live Gateway | Determines whether the live or test Klarna system should be used |
| Decline Pending Orders | Determines whether the pending orders should be immediately declined, or their status should be pulled regularly by the shop from the Klarna system. |
| Prohibit multiple addresses | Determines if the invoice and shipping addresses should be the same. By default different addresses are allowed, but anyway they should belong to the same user (the first and last name and the telephone numbers should be the same). If checked the addresses should be completely the same. |
| Invoice Shipment | Determines how the invoice should be shipped to the customer. Global for each service. |

Once the connector is configured, the payment services must be initialized in the channel context of the Commerce Management application. To do so, use the ad-hoc *Initialize* button. The button is available in the *Preferences* tab, as shown in the the screenshot below.

Warning

The *initialization* executes some very important functions. It tests the connectivity with the Klarna system but also downloads the available PClasses. The services cannot work correctly without PClasses.

In certain countries Klarna may fetch registered addresses based on a personal number (or social security number) provided by the customer. At the time of writing this is Sweden only. The Klarna connector may be customized to use this check and to show error messages in case that the registered addresses do not match the shipping and billing addresses of the shopping cart. This intends to enhance the security of the integration. The check is currently triggered only during the authorization phase.

The SSN check is enabled by a configuration property. The property `intershop.payment.KLARNA.check.pno.countries`

enumerates the countries in which the PNO check is performed. Example:

intershop.payment.KLARNA.check.pno.countries = SE

If the value is empty or the key is missing then no check is performed at all.

In the standard connector there is only a dummy check enabled for Sweden. It sends the SSN that the customer entered to Klarna and the check simply fails if no address can be retrieved for this specific SSN. No other checks are implemented. The check is triggered during the authorization. Its behavior can be disabled by overriding the configuration property `intershop.payment.KLARNA.check.pno.no.address.fails`

and setting it to false.

In case that the check fails then error messages are shown to the end user, e.g.:

There is no one-to-one mapping between the properties of an "Intershop" address and a "Klarna" address. The comparison might be project specific.

Custom projects that would like to replace the dummy implementation should provide their own custom Guice binding for the interface `com.intershop.adapter.payment.klarna.capi.pno.KlarnaServicePNOCheck`

. This is a functional interface with one method:

public List<Incident> checkAddresses(PaymentContext context, Payable payable, List<KlarnaAddressDetails> addresses);

The address list passed as an argument is retrieved from Klarna and should be verified against the provided payment context and payable. In case that the addresses cannot be verified successfully a list with errors should be returned which will be eventually shown to the end user.

The Klarna Connector comes with the following list of implemented capabilities - `Authorize`

, `Cancel`

, `Capture`

, `Reduce`

, `Refund`

and `Validate`

(just a stub). All of these capabilities are initialized by factories. The interfaces of these factories are located in package `com.intershop.adapter.payment.klarna.capi.service.capabilities`

. Capability `XXX`

is initialized by factory `XXXFactory`

. If a project wants to replace some capabilities then it may provide its own Guice binding for this factory. If the custom implementation of the factory returns `null`

then the capability will be disabled.

The Klarna connector provides English and German localization files for the payment specific input field labels, error messages etc.

You can find the existing localization files here:

*<IS.INSTANCE.SHARE>/system/cartridges/ac_payment_klarna/release/localizations*

*<IS.INSTANCE.SHARE>/system/cartridges/ac_payment_klarna_bo/release/localizations*

For details about localization, see:

This following table summarizes known limitations with this implementation of the connector.

| Limitation | Description |
|---|---|
| Multiple shipping | Multiple shipping is not supported. If the service connector detects that the basket contains products which are shipped to multiple addresses then the Klarna payment methods will be restricted for this basket. The connector is usable (for some baskets) even if the setting |
| Gross base price display | Klarna supports only gross base price display with gross based taxation service. |
| Zero baskets | Baskets with zero total amounts are not supported for checkout by Klarna. |
| Digital goods | Buying only digital goods is not supported scenario due to the lack of a real postal address required by Klarna. |
| Saving for later purchases | Neither invoice nor partial payments support the saving of the payment instrument for later usage. That limitation comes from the fact that the payment instrument is bound to a specific country. The corresponding checkbox should be unchecked in the management application as shown on the next screenshot. |
| Products | Product names or id-s may contain only characters from the
All other characters will be removed from the name before sending the request to Klarna. If the ID contains such character, payment will fail with error from Klarna. |

`Payable`

argument of the `Validate`

capability is always `null`

in any implementation. This is a known bug tracked as Klarna reduce function is not processed in the Klarna Backoffice

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.