---
id: '37427d64ba33dc4b54cacdffd6c22b96'
title: 'Guide - Intershop PWA'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3R0796'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:42.119093+00:00'
---
Sometimes during development, it might be necessary to work with mocked data.

This is especially necessary when developing new features in parallel where backend and frontend are involved.

In the PWA, we supply a mocking mechanism so that the frontend team can start implementation with mocked data until the backend implementation is finished.

Mocking complete REST responses can be configured in *environment.ts* for calls that do not yet exist in the [REST API](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php?q1=API&tab=api) during development.

The property `apiMockPaths`

is an array of regular expressions for paths.

The following configuration example will mock all CMS calls.

```
apiMockPaths: ['^cms/.*'],
```


Tip

With PWA version 5.2.0, a filtering for matrix parameters (e.g., `/cms;pgid=JdbSDW8rrqSRpGO4S7o0b4AK0000/includes`

) was introduced.

This way, personalized REST calls can be mocked now as well with file path without the matrix parameter.

The configuration would look like this.

```
apiMockPaths: ['^cms.*/.*'],
```


Mocked data is put in the folder *assets/mock-data/*.

The path is the full path to the endpoint of the service without additional arguments.

The JSON response is put into a file called *get.json* in the respective folder.

Example path to a homepage include mock file:

`src/assets/mock-data/cms/includes/include.homepage.content.pagelet2-Include/get.json`


Switching to mocked REST API calls is done by the `MockInterceptor`

, which reads the configuration and acts accordingly.

Mocked REST calls will be logged to the browser console similarly to this example:

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.