---
id: '3781f640a78e9492aafeec596987900c'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/U31109'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:36:28.956407+00:00'
---
This guide replaces the outdated Knowledge Base article with ID X22332 and the title* Configuring Tax Data in the File taxdataset.properties*.

This guide explains how to define tax data in the *$IS_HOME/share/system/config/cluster/taxdataset.properties* file. It describes tax classes and jurisdiction settings, the usage, and how to share taxation data. It also describes how to check the current settings in the database.

The *$IS_HOME/share/system/config/cluster/taxdataset.properties* file is the central point where tax classes, tax rates, and tax jurisdictions are defined in the system. Every change of this file triggers an update of the tax-related database entries during the next application server startup. When the system detects a change in the *taxdataset.properties* file during startup, it applies the settings and creates a file named *taxdataset.lastupdate* in the same directory. This file contains information about the last update so that the system can recognize whether an update needs to be performed during the next system startup. That file should never be modified manually. However, it may be deleted to force the system to apply the *taxdataset.properties* settings during the next application server start. If, after a server restart, no new *taxdataset.lastupdate* file is written, although the *taxdataset.properties* file has been changed, check the error log and debug log for problems.

The default settings can be completely overwritten by the settings in the *taxdataset.properties* file.

It is not necessary to have a default channel/organization, but having it allows you to omit the channel/organization/domain assignment from the different entries for the tax class and tax jurisdiction definitions for those that are commonly used.

The default defined here is not used as the default source when a new channel is created!

Specify the default channel, domain, or organization to which jurisdictions and tax classes should belong. If not specified, each jurisdiction and tax class must be assigned to a specific channel, domain, or organization. If both are specified, the specific assignment takes precedence over the default one.

**Channel or Organization Specification**

Default.channel= {EITHER optional: name of default channel} Default.organization= {OR optional: name of default organization} Default.domain= {OR optional: name of default domain}

For tax jurisdictions, it is necessary to define aliases (mappings), so that every possible different way to have the jurisdiction name in the address table can be assigned to the right jurisdiction.

The country name mappings should include the values that indicate the country stored in the `COUNTRYCODE`

field of the `BASICADDRESS`

(until 7.7) and `CUSTOMERADDRESS`

tables.

Any number of jurisdictions may be specified, distinguished using different `{id}`

s. If a jurisdiction does not belong to the `Default.channel`

/`.organization`

, one of `Jurisdiction.{id}.channel`

/`.domain`

/`.organization`

must be specified. Any number of country/state assignments may be defined, distinguished using numbers `{int}`

. Values must match the actually used values in addresses.

**Tax Jurisdictions**

Jurisdiction.{id}.name= {name of tax jurisdiction} Jurisdiction.{id}.channel= {EITHER optional: name of channel to which jurisdiction belongs, fallback to Default.channel/.domain/.organization} Jurisdiction.{id}.organization= {OR optional: name of organization to which jurisdiction belongs, fallback to Default.channel/.domain/.organization} Jurisdiction.{id}.domain= {OR optional: domain to which jurisdiction belongs, fallback to Default.channel/.domain/.organization} Jurisdiction.{id}.default={true|false} {optional: whether this is the default jurisdiction, false if not specified} Jurisdiction.{id}.mapping.{int}.country={optional: jurisdiction-country assignment - must be given if state is given} Jurisdiction.{id}.mapping.{int}.state= {optional: jurisdiction-state assignment}

Any number of classes may be specified, distinguished using different `{id}`

s. If the class does not belong to `Default.channel/.domain/.organization`

, one of `Class.{id}.channel`

/`.organization`

must be specified.

**Tax Classes**

Class.{id}.code= {code of tax class, the ID via that objects like products are assigned to this class} Class.{id}.name= {name of tax class} Class.{id}.channel= {EITHER optional: name of channel to which class belongs, fallback to Default.channel/.domain/.organization} Class.{id}.organization= {OR optional: name of organization to which class belongs, fallback to Default.channel/.domain/.organization} Class.{id}.domain= {OR optional: domain to which class belongs, fallback to Default.channel/.domain/.organization} Class.{id}.description= {description of tax class} Class.{id}.default={true|false} {optional: whether this is the default tax class, false if not specified}

A tax rate may be defined for each jurisdiction/tax class pair. The jurisdictions and tax classes are identified using their `{id}`

s.

**Tax Rates**

Rate.{jurisdiction id}.{class id}.value= {xx.yyy eg 7.5%=0.075, tax rate valid from .validfrom if given} Rate.{jurisdiction id}.{class id}.validfrom={dd.mm.yyyy e.g 16.01.2004 optional date when .previous rate becomes invalid and .value becomes valid} Rate.{jurisdiction id}.{class id}.previous= {xx.yyy eg 7.5%=0.075, optional tax rate valid previous to validfrom date}

If desired, a tax data set belonging to one channel/domain/organization can be shared with one or more other channels/domains/organizations. Each sharing relationship is distinguished using an `{id}`

. It is important to note that tax data sets can only be shared by defining direct relations. Sharing a tax data set involves specifying the source that provides the tax data set and the target that uses the tax data set. It is also possible to mix up these properties, for example, sharing from an organization to a channel.

**Sharing Tax Data Sets**

Sharing.{id}.from.channel= {EITHER specify channel providing its tax data set} Sharing.{id}.to.channel= {AND specify channel using the tax data set} Sharing.{id}.from.organization= {OR specify organization providing its tax data set} Sharing.{id}.to.organization= {AND specify organization using its tax data set} Sharing.{id}.from.domain= {OR specify domain providing its tax data set} Sharing.{id}.to.domain= {AND specify domain using its tax data set} Sharing.{id}.relationDefinitionName= {the relation definition name, either TAX_CLASS or TAX_JURISDICTION - If omitted both tax relations will be created.}

If you create a new channel or organization and use custom sharing rules, you will also need to create a new sharing relationship for the new channel or organization. It is also possible to change the default tax data sharing. For more information, see the section below.

The default organization is *Operations*.

The tax classes are defined system-wide in the *Operations *organization.

The tax jurisdictions are defined system-wide in the *Operations *organization.

No sharing definitions are needed, because the default relations ensure that everything is shared from *Operations*.

These settings can be applied in all systems where the same tax data are valid for every channel and organization.

By default, every channel in the domain shares the tax classes and tax jurisdictions of the *Operations *organization, regardless of the settings in *taxdataset.properties*. This is hard coded into the pipeline logic for the channel creation. To change this behavior for one or all sites/organizations/repositories, overwrite the appropriate creation hook pipeline. These are the relevant pipeline descriptor files:

**Pipeline Descriptor Files**

sld_ch_partner_plugin/staticfiles/cartridge/pipelines/CreateSiteHook.xml sld_ch_sf_base/staticfiles/cartridge/pipelines/CreateSiteHook.xml sld_enterprise_app/staticfiles/cartridge/pipelines/CreateSiteHook.xml sld_ch_partner_plugin/staticfiles/cartridge/pipelines/CreateRepositoryHook.pipeline sld_ch_b2c_base/staticfiles/cartridge/pipelines/CreateConsumerOrganization.pipeline sld_ch_partner_plugin/staticfiles/cartridge/pipelines/CreatePartnerOrganization.pipeline sld_enterprise_app/staticfiles/cartridge/pipelines/CreateSalesOrganization.pipeline sld_ch_consumer_plugin/staticfiles/cartridge/pipelines/CreateSalesChannel.pipeline

To configure domain-specific tax data settings, follow these steps:

Find out which data are system-wide and which are domain-specific.

Define one channel or organization as the default channel or organization.

Define all system-wide settings for this domain.

Define different settings for single channels/organizations as needed.

Propagate the tax data by defining the appropriate sharing relations.

If the default domain is not *Operations*, make sure that every organization/channel in the system, that needs tax data, has them defined or shares them from somewhere. If you additionally define settings for *Operations*, these settings will be applied for every newly created channel (business channel) or customer organization.

If newly created organizations require additional settings, define them in *taxdataset.properties* and restart the system (see [Taxation Data Auto-Update Mechanism](https://knowledge.intershop.com#auto-update)).

**Example for a Tax Data Set with Domain Specific Tax Jurisdictions and Global Tax Classes**

The organization structure is as follows:

*TestTaxes* is an organization with the *MyPartner *partner channel.

*MyPartner* has two partner organizations, one for Germany (*DE*) and one for Austria (*AT*). The *DE* organization has channels that have the German tax jurisdiction as default jurisdiction. At the moment there is just one channel. The *AT* organization has channels that have the Austrian tax jurisdiction as default jurisdiction. At the moment there are two channels.

In parallel, there still exists *inSPIRED*, which has the US tax jurisdiction as default.

Tax classes are shared throughout the system (`FullTax`

, `ReducedTax`

and `NoTax`

).

The default organization is *Operations*.

The tax classes are defined in the *Operations *channel.

The default tax jurisdictions are defined in the *Operations *channel.

There are separate jurisdictions defined for the *AT* organization.

There are separate jurisdictions defined for the *DE* organization.

The data of the *AT* organization are shared to *AT*-*MyATChannel* and *AT*-*OtherATChannel*.

The data of the *DE* organization are shared to *DE*-*MyDEChannel*.

Tax rates are defined for all combinations of tax jurisdictions and classes.

If, for example, a different channel is created for the *DE* organization in the future, it will inherit the *Operations* settings with US as the default tax jurisdiction. To change these to the *DE* organization channel, update *taxdataset.properties* and configure a sharing relation from the *DE* organization to the new channel similar to the existing ones.

See attached [taxdataset.properties](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Deliver/DOC/U31109/taxdataset.properties) file.

Here are some useful queries to verify which data were prepared:

**Useful Queries**

-- In which domains are the tax classes in my system defined? SELECT domainname, b.* FROM basictaxclass b, domaininformation d WHERE d.domainid = b.domainid; -- In which domains are the tax jurisdictions in my system defined? SELECT domainname, b.* FROM taxjurisdiction b, domaininformation d WHERE d.domainid = b.domainid; -- Which Domain shares which tax data whereto? SELECT d2.domainname FromDomain, d1.domainname ToDomain, relationdefinitionname, r.lastmodified FROM relation r, domaininformation d1, domaininformation d2 WHERE relationdefinitionname like 'TAX%' AND d1.domainid = domain1_ID AND d2.domainid = domain2_ID; --Which country names are defined for which domain in the basic address table? (until ICM 7.7) SELECT DISTINCT di.domainname, ba.countrycode, ba.state FROM basicaddress ba, domaininformation di WHERE di.domainid = ba.domainid ORDER BY domainname, countrycode; --Which country names are defined for which domain in the customer address table? (since version ICM 7.8) SELECT DISTINCT di.domainname, ca.countrycode FROM customeraddress ca, domaininformation di WHERE di.domainid = ca.domainid ORDER BY domainname, countrycode; -- select default tax classes SELECT domainname,tc.name, tcc.* FROM basictaxclassCONFIG tcc, basictaxclass tc, domaininformation di where tcc.defaulttaxclassid = tc.uuid and tcc.domainid = di.domainid -- select default tax jurisdictions SELECT domainname,tj.name, tjc.* FROM TAXJURISDICTIONCONFIG tjc, taxjurisdiction tj, domaininformation di WHERE tjc.defaulttaxjurisdictionid = tj.uuid AND di.domainid = tjc.domainid

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.