---
id: '379663666617c51a08f26d9543393758'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/P28757'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:37:46.728397+00:00'
---
Return merchandise authorization (RMA) describes an arrangement in which the seller of a good or product agrees to have a customer or client ship that item back to them in exchange for a refund or credit. This agreement allows for a higher degree of guaranteed quality. The *Intershop Order Management (IOM)* has the ability to retrieve returnable order positions, accept return requests, check for approvals, generate RMA numbers, and support the generation of return-related documents.

*Intershop Order Management (IOM)* has the ability to create return requests using the IOM REST API. The RMA business process can be used to attach automated or manual approvals for return requests using different status models.

This document describes the basic concepts of the RMA business process and how to configure it to make use of automated and manual approval. The target audience is partners and consultants.

Term | Description |
|---|---|
| API | The abbreviation for Application Programming Interface |
IOM | The abbreviation for |
| OMT | The abbreviation for Order Management Tool, the graphical management tool of the IOM |
| REST | The abbreviation for Representational State Transfer |
| Return request | Also return announcement, a request from a customer to the seller for sending back products of a previously delivered order |
| RMA | The abbreviation for Return Merchandise Authorization or Return Material Authorization |

The RMA business process is a process that must be configured to be able to use a manual approval process. By default, after the initial setup of IOM, there is no configuration that uses a manual approval process.

The following model gives an overview of the RMA business process within the whole [order life cycle](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/47876046913/Concept+-+IOM+Order+Life+Cycle), starting with the [Order Business Process](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/47829713073/Reference+-+IOM+Order+Business+Process). After finalizing the order process, the [Dispatch Business Process](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/47830499953/Reference+-+IOM+Dispatch+Business+Process) can be started. Subsequently, the [Return Business Process](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/47830500334/Reference+-+IOM+Return+and+Cancelation+Business+Process) or RMA Business Process can follow, depending on the shop configuration and workflow. For more details about the RMA business process, see the next sections.

IOM has the ability to create, approve and export return requests. The following diagrams show the entire RMA business process as well as the various subprocesses in detail.

To call the sub-processes, different statuses are used so that each process has an input and an output. These are presented below. Also, refer [Reference - Return Announcement State Model](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/47807269201/Reference+-+Return+Announcement+State+Model).

`INITIAL:`

indicates that the return request is initially stored in the database. This applies as input to the *check process*.

`DO_APPROVE`

: indicates that the approval response is ready to process. This applies as input to the *approval process.*

`ACCEPTED:`

indicates that the approval for the return request has been accepted. This applies to internal status within the *approved process**.*

`REJECTED:`

indicates that the approval for the return request has been rejected. This applies to internal status within the *approved process**.*

`DO_CLOSE:`

indicates that the approval for the return request has been accepted or rejected. This applies as input to the *close process*.

`CLOSED:`

indicates that the RMA business process has been terminated. This applies as output to the Return requests could be created interactively within the OMT or directly via the [Overview - Intershop Order Management REST API](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1910440913/Overview+-+Intershop+Order+Management+REST+API).

Within the OMT:

`INITIAL.`

Note

**PICKUP**

When selecting the option PICKUP, the customer and delivery addresses have to be captured in the *Order Validation & Capture Process*. Please see [Cookbook - IOM Return Request with Pickup](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1866926766/Cookbook+-+IOM+Return+Request+with+Pickup) for a description on how to configure.

Using the IOM REST API to create a new return request, a return request with a given RMA number can be created. This field is optional, see [Overview - Intershop Order Management REST API](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1910440913/Overview+-+Intershop+Order+Management+REST+API).

Furthermore, IOM can also generate an RMA number (if it is not given), using the configuration described in [Cookbook - IOM Generation of Shop-specific RMA Numbers](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1859653362/Cookbook+-+IOM+Generation+of+Shop-specific+RMA+Numbers). This includes the customization of number ranges for the shop as well.

`ACCEPTED. `

To call the `DO_CLOSE.`

`DO_APPROVE.`

When the 3rd party (in this case OMT) sends the approval response, the process can be terminated and the status is set either to `ACCEPTED `

or `REJECTED.`


`DO_CLOSE `

to call the `CLOSED`

`,`

starts the return announcement transmission (if the export of return announcement has been configured) and finally terminates the RMA business process. The approval process is a process that must be configured to be able to use a manual process. By default, after the initial setup of IOM, there is no configuration that uses a manual approval process. Please refer to [Cookbook - IOM RMA Business Process](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1859666508/Cookbook+-+IOM+RMA+Business+Process) for more details about the major configuration steps to enable the RMA business process.

Info

Please refer to [Reference - IOM ImpEx Export RMA](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1854902670/Reference+-+IOM+ImpEx+Export+RMA) for more details about the structure and configuration for the new export of return announcement transmission.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.