---
id: '38a7fa23558a63e4f38166c31e9c602c'
title: 'Job'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/29532G'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:31.624055+00:00'
---
Name | Rebuild Search Indexes | ||||||||||||
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Domain | SLDSystem | ||||||||||||
Job Dependencies | Update Product Assignments - if dynamic product binding is used | ||||||||||||
AcquiredResources | SearchIndexes (System Domain) | ||||||||||||
Cartridge | sld_system_app | ||||||||||||
Pipeline | MaintainSearchIndexes-Rebuild | ||||||||||||
Affected Domain Objects | |||||||||||||
Affected Tables | |||||||||||||
Stored Procedure | |||||||||||||
Default State | Disabled | ||||||||||||
Is Site Specific | False | ||||||||||||
Edit State | n.a. | ||||||||||||
Live State | n.a. | ||||||||||||
| Server Group | JOB | ||||||||||||
Description | Rebuilds all search indexes by removing all indexed data first. Restriction Search indexes are rebuilt only for domains that are in the "Live" status. All others remain untouched. | ||||||||||||
Scheduling | Use this schedule for an initial build of all search indexes or schedule it after data changes in all channels. | ||||||||||||
What Happens Switched Off | |||||||||||||
Trouble Shooting | |||||||||||||
Comments | Determines all search indexes in the system and triggers a rebuild. This re-creates all search indexes from scratch. The indexes can be built in parallel with a configurable number of threads and batch size. Note Note for Is 7.4: SFProductSearchSuggest indexes are build after all other indexes: Optional parameters of the schedule pipeline that can be used as Job Configuration Attributes
Use this pipeline to build up dedicated process chains. |

Product Version | 7.2 |
|---|---|
Product To Version | |
| Status |
|

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.