---
id: '38ead536ca262084de8a70bf9c0d3bd5'
title: 'Overview'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/M28465'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:37:48.688092+00:00'
---
The present page serves as an overview for the topic. All available documents for the topic can be found here.

Intershop Order Management (IOM) uses relational databases. Here a relational schema specifies a collection of *table definitions*, providing structure for the data hosted in the database instance.

A database documentation depends on the used version of IOM.

The database structure, tables, its relations, triggers and more are listed in the attached documents.

The files are provided zip-packed and contain a web file structure that can be opened in any browser. Use the *index.html* to start browsing the database documentation.

Note

Please note that Intershop hereby declares explicitly that the description of the database structure shall not be seen as a public API.

The database structure can change at any time and these materials are subject to change without notice.

Also these materials are provided by Intershop Communications AG for informational purposes only, without representation or warranty of any kind. Intershop shall not be liable for errors or omissions with respect to the materials. The only warranties for Intershop products and services are those that are set forth in the express warranty statements accompanying such products and services, if any. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an additional warranty.

Especially note that only a public set of information is listed exclusively. Other information are not noted here at this time.

| Title | Product Version | Product To Version |
|---|---|---|
|

4.0

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.