---
id: '39ba6897f6932d1068bab5eb8aa88700'
title: 'Reference'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/Z31282'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:15.584748+00:00'
---
Since Intershop Commerce Management 11, there is a clear separation between the core commerce functionality and optional additional capabilities. These additional capabilities are bundled in so-called “customizations”. [Overview - Customization - Development Process - ICM 11+](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48444277617/Overview+-+Customization+-+Development+Process+-+ICM+11) explains the concept.

Some of the regular standard extensions and connectors are now delivered in the form of such customizations, e.g., the CMS content model.

This document is aimed at project architects and provides an overview of these extensions and connectors you can use with Intershop Commerce Management (ICM). Further information can be found in the respective release notes.

An extension can be used to add more functionality to your Intershop Commerce Management.

The inSPIRED demo data can be added for manual tests and demos.

“Headless” extends the ICM Application Server with the CMS content model artifacts that are used in the Intershop PWA.

Mandatory extension, if the ICM CMS is used. Project modifications are allowed.

Release Note: [Public Release Note - ICM Headless Extension](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48807903428/Public+Release+Note+-+ICM+Headless+Extension)

A connector allows you to connect your Intershop Commerce Management to another product or service and leverage its functionalities.

The IOM Connector allows data exchange and communication between Intershop Commerce Management and Intershop Order Management.

Release Note: [Public Release Note - IOM Connector 8](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48494411951/Public+Release+Note+-+IOM+Connector+8)

Use this extension to migrate an existing Responsive Starter Store (RSS) to the new ICM 11+ version. This extension is intended only as a temporary step before switching to the PWA (Progressive Web App) to reduce risks in migration projects and should not be seen as a long-term solution.

**Important:** This extension is deprecated since ICM 11 and not meant for long-term use. The RSS is not fully tested with ICM 11+, so we strongly recommend migrating to the [PWA](https://github.com/intershop/intershop-pwa), which offers superior performance, scalability, and long-term support. Do not rely on this extension indefinitely.

To facilitate a smoother migration, you may consider using the [hybrid approach](https://github.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/wiki/Hybrid-Approach), where both the PWA and the classic Responsive Starter Store are run in parallel. This strategy allows you to gradually migrate functionality to the Angular-based PWA storefront while maintaining customized features within ISML and Pipelines. Migrations to the PWA can be started as small projects and incrementally be expanded as more and more functionality is moved to Angular code.

The SolrCloud Search Service Adapter connects the Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) with a Solr server that runs in cloud mode.

Release Note: [Public Release Note - SolrCloud Search Service Adapter 4](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48773562499/Public+Release+Note+-+SolrCloud+Search+Service+Adapter+4) (ICM 11)

A payment connector allows you to add various payment methods to your Intershop Commerce Management.

The Service Connector adds PAYONE payment methods to your Intershop Commerce Management installation.

Release Note: [Public Release Note - PAYONE Service Connector 7](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48701341699/Public+Release+Note+-+PAYONE+Service+Connector+7) (ICM 11)

The PayPal Connector allows you to add PayPal payment methods to your Intershop Commerce Management installation.

Release Note: [Public Release Note - PayPal Service Connector 7](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48565358623/Public+Release+Note+-+PayPal+Service+Connector+7) (ICM 11)

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.