---
id: '3a00141e06c0142560cef4fc7c3dd9f6'
title: 'Order Detail Page Overview'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/40793R'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:30:42.685959+00:00'
---
This section displays basic order information such as shop name, customer name, customer
number, and the order date. Furthermore, the current order status is displayed.

First Order Details Tab Bar

Here you can retrieve more detailed order information, view order attributes, and access
documents related to the order in question. The following entries are available:

Table 1. First Order Details Tab Bar Entries

Name

Description

Action

Order Information

Displays order information such as dates, the invoice address, and contact details.

By clicking Edit you can change the editable invoice address data, see Editing Invoice Address.

Shipping buckets

Displays shipping buckets and related shipping addresses.
Clicking on the shipping bucket number shows generic
attributes.

By clicking Edit, you can change the editable shipping address data, see Editing Shipping Address.

Invoices

Lists the invoices, aggregated invoices, and credit notes, see Accessing Invoices.

You can mark invoices as paid and download invoice documents by
clicking the repsective icon in the Actions column in the row of the
intended invoice, see Managing Invoices by Order.

Payment notifications

Displays messages related to payment processes, e.g., failed payments.

You can perform a variety of tasks by clicking the respective
icon in the Actions column in the row of the intended payment
process, see Handling Failed Payments.

Documents

Displays the available order documents, such as invoices, credit
notes,delivery notes, or return slips.

You can download order documents by clicking the icon in the Actions column in the row of the intended document, see Downloading Order Documents.

You can view the e-mail by clicking the icon, change the receiver's e-mail address by clicking the icon, and resend the e-mail by clicking the icon in the Actions column in the respective row.

Attributes

Displays custom order attributes.

Notes

Expands the notes section.

You can add a note to an order by clicking the icon, see Adding Order Notes.

Second Order Details Tab Bar

From here you can view order positions and use additional functionalities, such as
managing returns, approvals, or cancellations.

Displays the order positions clustered by shipping
buckets.

Clicking on the product name displays the product
details.

Receipts

Displays the receipt(s) for the order in question.

You can view delivery details as well as the message history
here, see Accessing Receipts.

Deliveries

If available, displays the delivery details of an order such as
product delivery date, carrier, package count, and status.

Clicking the icon displays details about the delivered products. Clicking the icon in the Actions column displays the status history. In case there are no deliveries available for the order in question, you can add a delivery confirmation, see Adding Delivery Confirmation.

Return requests

If available, displays a list of return requests. It contains
information such as RMA number, return type, creation date, and
status.

Clicking the icon displays details about the returned products such as return reason. The icon in the Actions column allows you to create return confirmations. You can add (additional) return requests by clicking the icon. See Managing Returns (RMA) for further information.

Returns

If available, displays the return details such as supplier,
return value, and refund status.

Clicking the icon displays return information on product level. By clicking the icon in the Actions column you can view the status history.

Cancellations

If available, displays the cancellation request.

Clicking the icon displays cancellation information on product level. By clicking the icon in the Actions column you can view the status history. You can create and add additional cancellation confirmation, see Adding Cancellation Confirmation.

Order approvals

Displays two sections: The manual approval section lists reasons
for manual approval that are registered for this order. The external
approval section lists approvals for this order that are to be
processed externally by a third party.

If available, displays a list of change requests for the order.
It contains information such as creator, creation date, update date,
and status.

By clicking Change requests you can view
details about the change requests for the order.

Create Return Label

This button allows to create a return label. The availability of the button depends on the order status. For details refer to Creating Return Labels.

Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.