---
id: '3a1498d1ec0fc170e5bf4caa09b6d1ac'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/309F80'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:36.420587+00:00'
---
This document is valid from Intershop Commerce Management 11.2.0.

This document describes the concept behind the customer-related functionality of the WebShop REST API.

It covers the logical similarity between the REST API customer extension and standard storefront applications, the resource, resource objects, and associated class structure as well as the concepts behind validation and data processing introduced for this extension.

The goal with extending the REST API is to provide custom/REST clients with means to manage and retrieve customer information and details.

This document is aimed at developers who want to extend and modify the customer REST API of Intershop Commerce Management. It is also a good starting point for anyone who wants to create an application based on REST, such as a mobile application, and wants to get an overview of the resource structure.

The functionality described here covers the process around customer self management - self registration, profile management, and address management.

Albeit there are some specific implementation details, customer-related resources are implemented by following the general REST API approach. Before reading any further, familiarize yourself with the [REST API Concept](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1755498754) and [Cookbook - REST Framework](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1827471588).

Knowledge about [what customers are and what capabilities they have](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1775671989) depending on their customer type is essential.

Term | Explanation |
|---|---|
REST | |
Resource | A server-side object that handles the request and is identified by the URI |
ResourceObject (RO) | A data object that is serialized/deserialized and used to transfer structured data between client and server |
Customer | From the shop manager's point of view, a customer is an actor on the |
Customer type | In Intershop Commerce Management, customer types categorize customers. They indicate whether a customer represents an:
The functions of Intershop Commerce Management can differ depending on the customer type. For example, customers can have either gross or net prices displayed, provide additional profile information, hide certain features, etc. |
Individual customer | A customer type that represents an individual person or household. Unlike business customers, individual customers are assigned to exactly one user and have gross prices displayed by default. |
Business customer | A customer type that represents a business. Unlike individual customers, business customers can have multiple manageable users assigned to them and have net prices displayed by default. |
User | The meaning varies depending on the customer type:
|

Although there are different applications for B2C and B2B, there is only one REST API that contains both parts equally. See [Concept - Headless Application Type - intershop.REST](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1917339378) for further details.

The API is defined by the following code:

<instance name="intershop.WebShop.RESTAPI" with="AppRootResourceAssignment"> <fulfill requirement="rootResource" with="intershop.WebShop.RESTAPI.root" /> </instance>

The WebShop REST API provides endpoints for Private Customers as well as for Business Customers. This paragraph outlines the endpoints for both customer types.

Private customers (B2C scenario) are real individual customers that have to authenticate themselves against the REST API.

The table below shows some of the important resources. The *Requires authentication* column indicates whether the client has to be authenticated before accessing the resource. The *Dynamic sub-resource *column indicates that this resource represents a collection of objects and every element of this collection can be accessed by its ID. For a complete list of URIs/resources, refer to [Reference - Intershop Commerce Management 11 REST API](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/37689296013/Reference+-+Intershop+Commerce+Management+11+REST+API).

Resource | Description | Requires authentication | Dynamic sub-resource | Corresponding REST API |
|---|---|---|---|---|
/privatecustomers/ | A resource to provide functionality for customer's self registration. | Customer REST API | ||
/privatecustomers/-/ | A resource to provide functionality for retrieving customer's details. | |||
/privatecustomers/-/addresses | A resource to provide functionality for customer's address management. | |||
/privatecustomers/-/giftcardsandcertificates | A resource to view gift cards and certificates used or available by/to given customer and check their balance. | |||
/privatecustomers/-/addresses/<address-id>/suggestions/ | A resource to provide functionality for possible addresses suggestions of given address. | Address Check REST API | ||
/privatecustomers/-/credentials/question | A resource that provides functionality for changing the customer's security question. | Authentication REST API | ||
/privatecustomers/-/credentials/password | A resource to change business customer's password. |
|
| |
/privatecustomers/-/notifications/stock | A resource that allows management of product notification for availability. |
| Notification REST API | |
/privatecustomers/-/notifications/price | A resource that allows management of product notification for reaching certain price threshold. |
| ||
/privatecustomers/-/wishlists | A resource that allows management of customer's wishlists. | Wish List REST API | ||
/privatecustomers/-/wishlists/<wishlist-id>/share | A resource for sharing private wishlist with someone. | |||
/privatecustomers/-/wishlists/<wishlist-id>/settings | A resource for managing wishlist settings. |

A business customer (B2B scenario) consists of a customer (the company) and user (employees of the company). Almost all resources require that the REST client uses valid credentials of a given user to authenticate to the system.

The table below shows the important Business Customer resources that are available. The *Requires authentication* column indicates if the client has to be authenticated before accessing the resource. The *Dynamic sub-resource *column indicates that this resource represents a collection of objects and every element of this collection can be accessed by its ID. For a complete list of URIs/resources, refer to [Reference - Intershop Commerce Management 11 REST API](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/37689296013/Reference+-+Intershop+Commerce+Management+11+REST+API).

Resource | Description | Requires authentication | Dynamic sub-resource | Corresponding REST API |
|---|---|---|---|---|
/customers/ | A resource to provide functionality for customer's self registration. | Customer REST API | ||
/customers/-/ | A resource to provide functionality for retrieving customer's details. | |||
/customers/-/addresses | A resource to provide functionality for customer's address management. | |||
/customers/-/users/- | A resources that allows viewing and updating of the profile details of currently logged in user of a business customer. | |||
/customers/-/users/-/giftcardsandcertificates | A resource to view gift cards and certificates used or available by/to given user and check their balance. | |||
/customers/-/addresses/<address-id>/suggestions/ | A resource to provide functionality for possible addresses suggestions of given address. | Address Check REST API | ||
/customers/-/users/-/credentials/password | A resource to change business customer's user's password. | Authentication REST API | ||
/customers/-/users/-/credentials/question | A resource to change business customer's user's security question | |||
/customers/-/users/-/notifications/stock | A resource that allows management of product notification for availability. | Notification REST API | ||
/customers/-/users/-/notifications/price | A resource that allows management of product notification for reaching certain price threshold. | |||
/customers/-/users/-/wishlists | A resource that allows management of user's wishlists. | Wish List REST API | ||
/customers/-/users/-/wishlists/<wishlist-id>/share | A resource for sharing private wishlist with someone. | |||
/customers/-/users/-/wishlists/<wishlist-id>/settings | A resource for managing wishlist settings. |

As resources are realized with components (see [Concept - REST Framework](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1755498754) for more information), it is important that *no resource* is created as *anonymous* instance. In other words, the resource's instance has to be be created with explicitly set name and, in addition, the name has to be prefixed with the name of the REST API it belongs to. Take a look at the following example:

**Naming Conventions**

<instance name="intershop.WebShop.RESTAPI.PrivateCustomerAddressItemSuggestionItemResource" with="PrivateCustomerAddressItemSuggestionItemResource"> <fulfill requirement="handler" with="intershop.WebShop.RESTAPI.CustomerAddressHandler" /> <fulfill requirement="currentCustomerProvider"> <instance with="CurrentCustomerProviderImpl" /> </fulfill> </instance>

It clearly indicates that the Suggestion Item Resource instance has the name `intershop.WebShop.RESTAPI.PrivateCustomerAddressItemSuggestionItemResource`

. To add it to the REST API, you have to add it as a sub-resource to a component file:

<fulfill requirement="subResource" with="intershop.WebShop.RESTAPI.PrivateCustomerAddressItemSuggestionItemResource" />

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.