---
id: '3a1619478a9c72b8334e3408e5d9d1f8'
title: 'Managing Destination Regions'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3Y2856'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:15.507221+00:00'
---
# Managing Destination Regions

Create, edit and manage destination regions, which can be used for setting up available shipping methods, shipping charges and shipping restrictions.

## Creating Destination Regions

-
Open the Destination Region manager.
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Orders | Shipping Configuration. Then click Destination Regions. This displays a list of all destination regions defined for the current channel.
-
Click New.
The Destination Region detail view is displayed.
-
Specify the mandatory information.
Mandatory data include name, ID and the address type. Optional information include the Active flag, the Default flag and a description.
Table 1. General destination region data Property Description Region Name Specifies the display name of the destination region (mandatory). Region ID Specifies the internal ID of the destination region (mandatory). Active (checkbox) Sets the availability status of the destination region. Default (checkbox) Sets this destination region as the default one. Region Description Specifies a description text for the destination region. Address Type Specifies the type of addresses covered by the current destination region (mandatory). Destination regions with specific address types can be used to group addresses that are subject to certain conditions like, for example, shipping method restrictions or stores for in-store pick-up. The default value (regular) does not involve any specific conditions. -
Click Apply.
This creates the destination region. You can now proceed to specifying the intended regions, see
[Defining Destination Regions](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/orders_fulfillment/topic_managing_destination_regions.html#task_order_ship_regions_define)).

## Editing Destination Regions

-
Open the Destination Region manager.
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Orders | Shipping Configuration. Then click Destination Regions. This displays a list of all destination regions defined for the current channel.
-
Click the name or ID of the intended destination region.
This opens the detail view of the destination region.
- Edit the data as necessary.
-
Click Apply to save your settings.
Otherwise, click Reset to discard your changes.

## Deleting Destination Regions

-
Open the Destination Region manager.
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Orders | Shipping Configuration. Then click Destination Regions. This displays a list of all destination regions defined for the current channel.
- Select the checkbox for the destination region to be deleted.
-
Click Delete, then OK to confirm the deletion.
The selected destination region is removed from the current channel.

## Defining Destination Regions

Note:

Make sure that prior to defining destination regions, your channel has imported the required country, state/province and postal code data.

To define destination regions:

-
Open the Destination Region manager.
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Orders | Shipping Configuration. Then click Destination Regions. This displays a list of all destination regions defined for the current channel.
-
Click the name or ID of the intended destination region.
This opens the detail view of the destination region.
-
To add countries, states/provinces or postal codes/destinations, click Add below the corresponding list box.
This opens a corresponding search for countries, states/provinces or postal codes/destinations.
-
Specify your search criteria and click Find.
For state/province searches and postal code/destination searches, restrict the search to a single country.
-
From the search result, select the intended countries, states/provinces or postal codes/destinations and click OK.
The selected areas are added to your current destination region.

Note:

Combining a country with individual provinces or postal codes of the same country (or a province with individual postal codes of the same province) has no specific effect, but only includes the entire country (or province) to the destination region. You can, however, combine a country with single provinces or postal codes of a neighboring country, or combine a province with single postal codes of a neighboring province, for example.

Tip:

For details about managing excluded delivery dates for a region, see