---
id: '3adb25a594ed35fe5b8ae53d263dfb32'
title: 'Assigning Replication Groups'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3268Y7'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:58.411096+00:00'
---
| Affiliate Partners |
This group replicates affiliate partners defined for the channel. |
| Branding |
This group replicates the branding packages and branding package assignments for the sales channel storefront. |
| Campaigns |
This group replicates the campaigns defined in this channel. |
| Catalogs |
This group replicates all catalogs and catalog categories, including custom classification catalogs. |
| Customer Segments |
This group replicates custom customer segments defined for the channel. |
| Image References |
This group replicates image references defined in this channel. |
| Labels/Label Assignments |
This group replicates labels and label assignments defined in this channel. |
| Localization Data |
This group replicates localization data defined for the sales channel storefront. |
| Pages and Components |
This group replicates pages and components, incl. slots and assignments, defined in this channel. |
| Products |
This group replicates all channel products and product-related information, such as product attachments, product links, category assignments and product variations. This group also replicates product prices. Note: If products have been syndicated from other repositories, references to source products are transferred as well. These references are effective only in case the respective source products are available on the target system as well. |
| Product Attribute Groups |
This group replicates all product attribute groups defined for the channel. |
| Product Prices |
This group replicates pricing information for products. Note: Updates only take effect in case the respective products are available on the target system as well. |
| Profanity Check Resources |
This group replicates the lists of prohibited words defined in this channel. |
| Promotions |
This group replicates all promotions, including discounts, discount rules and coupons associated with these promotions. This group also replicates gift certificates. |
| Search Indexes |
This group replicates the search indexes and their configurations, search query definitions (predefined product filters), and search redirects.Note: The object group that is indexed, e.g., PRODUCTS and PAGELETS, must be added to avoid inconsistencies. |
| Shipping Configuration |
This group replicates all shipping methods, freight classes, regions and shipping rules defined in this channel. |
| Short Links/Link Groups |
This group replicates short links and link groups defined for the channel. |