---
id: '3af06ebcf2e214201b33a878ee783ac4'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/301L43'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:29:36.610983+00:00'
---
This concept is valid from ICM 11.0. Information on previous versions can be found in [Concept - Configuration (valid from 7.10.12)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1880271567/Concept+-+Configuration+7.10.12+to+7.10.41-LTS).

The configuration framework is designed to administrators and developers decide from where to read a configuration. The purpose of the configuration framework is to have the ability to ask one manager for a property, but to read, if necessary, from multiple sources. Due to its extendable framework it can easily be customized.

The terms *property* and *preference* are used as synonyms in this context. The term *configuration source* is a placeholder for anything that can be a source for configurations, e.g., a file, a database table, an external resource, etc.

The heart of the configuration are the *configuration.xml* files located in the core and configuration cartridge. These files include the configuration of the configuration engine instance used at `ConfigurationMgr.`


For type-safe configuration representation with Java records, we recommend to consult our [typed configurations](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/49149280258/Concept+-+Typed+Configuration).

The following examples illustrate the use of the configuration framework. Each access is started at the `ConfigurationMgr`

(which starts a configuration engine and loads the *configuration.xml* of each cartridge).

Intershop recommends to extract the retrieval of configuration to context-specific configuration classes.

Providing a context-specific configuration interface and implementation has several advantages:

Better documentation capabilities for the configuration of “getter” methods

Better testability of business logic using different configuration values (mocking or providing different configurations to the logic)

Centralized access to the configuration framework (fewer platform dependencies in the business logic)

In previous versions, it was helpful to have different configurations on different application servers (e.g., for JobServer). In K8s, all application servers should behave the same. So `@ClusterConfiguration`

is best suited for global or application server configuration.

Intershop recommends providing a default configuration. This will result in a consistent behavior for values that are not configured. Otherwise, null values may be handled differently in different implementation classes.

import com.intershop.beehive.core.capi.configuration.Configuration; import com.intershop.beehive.core.capi.configuration.ServerConfiguration; import com.intershop.beehive.core.capi.configuration.ClusterConfiguration; public class BusinessConfigurationImpl implements BusinessConfiguration { @Inject @ClusterConfiguration Configuration clusterConfig; @Inject @ServerConfiguration Configuration serverConfig; public boolean isFeatureEabled() { return serverConfig.getBoolean("config.key.boolean", true); } public boolean getGlobalMaxSize() { return clusterConfig.getInteger("config.key.integer", 42); } }

Business configurations are typically related to an organization, channel, or other context. Domain-specific configuration fits to most of these requirements.

// via domain configuration public Integer getMaxSize(Domain domain) { return domain.getConfiguration().getInteger("config.key.integer", 24); }

For the rare cases where injection is not available, the ConfigurationMgr provides a static `getInstance()`

method to provide full access to the configuration framework.

@Inject ConfigurationMgr configMgr; # or via static (avoid static class members for assignment) ConfigurationMgr configMgr = ConfigurationMgr.getInstance(); // get a configuration for scope=instance Configuration configInstance = configMgr.getInstanceConfiguration(); // get a configuration for scope=cluster Configuration configCluster = configMgr.getClusterConfiguration(); // full definition of configuration context Configuration yourConfig = configMgr.getConfiguration(String scope, ConfigurationContext context); // configuration manager provides more capabilities to define the configuration context String configDomainString = configMgr.getConfiguration(eTest).getString("config.key.string", "defaultValue");

`ApplicationPO`

as well as `ApplicationBO`

provide a method `getConfiguration()`

that returns the complete set of configurations in the context of an application. This includes both application properties and preferences. Starting from ICM versions 13.5.3, 12.6.1, and 14.1.0, preferences from related domains (application site domain and application domain/channel) are also returned. Therefore, it is recommended to use this method for general access to properties and preferences.

@Inject CurrentApplicationBOProvider applicationBOProvider; // get the application ApplicationBO applicationBO = applicationBOProvider.get(); // get the configuration String configDomainString = applicationBO.getConfiguration().getString("config.key.string", "defaultValue");

This can also be used easily in templates (see the next paragraph):

<isprint value="#ApplicationBO:Configuration:String("config.key.string")#" />

The object path is often used in templates and queries. It is possible to access the configuration using the object path notation. The domain (`#CurrentSite`

) has a `getConfiguration()`

method, which is used for this example.

<isprint value="#CurrentSite:Configuration:String("<parameter>")#" /> <isprint value="#CurrentSite:Configuration:Integer(<group>.<subgroup>.<parameter-of-subgroup>)#" />

Configuration values can reference other configuration values by key using the `${key}`

syntax.

For instance:

intershop.jdbc.host=sql-icm-mycompany-prd.database.windows.net intershop.jdbc.databaseName=icm_live intershop.jdbc.url=jdbc:sqlserver://${intershop.jdbc.host}:1433;database=${intershop.jdbc.databaseName};

The effective configuration will be:

intershop.jdbc.host=sql-icm-mycompany-prd.database.windows.net intershop.jdbc.databaseName=icm_live intershop.jdbc.url=jdbc:sqlserver://sql-icm-mycompany-prd.database.windows.net:1433;database=icm_live;

Besides the configuration files of the core and configuration cartridge, all cartridges can define their own *configuration.xml* to extend the lookup and behavior of the configuration framework. The file has a predefined location in the cartridge resource folder */resources/${CartridgeName}/config/configuration.xml*. Important declarations take place in the following cartridges:

configuration: system scopes and finder

orm: finder declaration to find/declare *orm.properties*

core: main declarations of property files, readers, and scopes

bc_service: service-specific configuration

The file contains any:

reader - can read a configuration file or resource from URI locations

finder - provides a lookup in the system to find URIs (which can be read by the “readers”)

writer - can write adapted configuration to a resource (URI) - the counterpart to the reader

scope - defines which sets belong together

set - declares scope/finder/writer combination and represents the loaded properties

<configuration-setup> <readers> <reader class="..." /> </readers> <finders> <finder name="..." class="..." /> </finders> <writers> <writer name="..." class="..." /> </writers> <scopes> <scope name="..." depends="..." /> </scopes> <sets> <set finder="..." scope="..." writer="..." defaultWriter="..." writableKeys="..." /> </sets> </configuration-setup>

The `readers`

section defines the readers to use:

class: the class name of the reader; if no class is found, an exception will be thrown

The `finders`

section defines the finders to use:

name: the name by which this finder will be registered

class: the class name of the finder to use; if no class is found, an exception will be thrown

The `writers`

section defines the writers to use:

name: the name by which this writer will be registered

class: the class name of the writer to use; if no class is found, an exception will be thrown

The `scopes`

section defines the different scopes for which configurations will be created:

name: the name of the scope

depends: if a scope depends on the existence of other scopes

The `set`

section defines the configuration sets that will be found and read:

`finder`

: the finder to use to find a URI that a proper reader can read and return a configuration set

`scope`

: the comma-separated list of scopes for which this configuration set is intended

`writer`

: the name of a writer to use if this set should also be written

`defaultWriter`

: used if the writer of this set is the default writer

`writableKeys`

: the comma-separated list of keys that the writer can write

`priority`

: defines the order of the configuration value lookup across multiple configuration sets (within the same scope). A higher priority means: earlier lookup (overrides lower priority). The default priority is `50`

.

Any other attribute of this tag will be treated as a bean property of the defined finder and a setter method with the given attribute name will be triggered; e.g., `<set fileName="..."/>`

will trigger the `setFileName(...)`

method.

Be aware that not all `finders`

, `readers`

, and `writers`

known to the configuration framework are registered using one of the *configuration.xml*-files: There are some internal `finders`

, `readers`

, and `writers`

that are registered using internal code (see [Finders](https://knowledge.intershop.com#finders)).

Each configuration `set`

has a `priority`

attribute. This priority is used to order the lookup. Sets with higher priority are loaded earlier. As a result of the declaration in the core cartridge, domain-specific configuration (preferences) have a higher priority as properties declared in cartridges. That means, domain configuration can override standard values for a specific domain. Cartridge configuration values can override “standard” configurations for all domains.

The configuration engine can provide different configurations for different purposes. For this reason, the concept of scopes has been introduced. A scope is a logical structuring of configurations needed for that purpose.

Saying that a scope depends on one or more other scopes means that in order to load configurations for this scope (e.g., instance), you must first load all the configurations that this scope depends on (startup). Since *startup *uses the system configuration that provides you with all system properties (`intershop.HomeDirectory`

), the *instance* scope cannot be loaded properly as long as it depends on the values from the *startup *scope.

The fact that one scope depends on another scope does not automatically mean that when you request a configuration for that scope, you will also have configuration sets of the dependent scopes in it.

That is, if you request a configuration for the scope *instance *that depends on *startup*, not every *startup *configuration set is necessarily included in the *instance *scope.

The following figure outlines the scopes that are currently in use:

These are the `finders`

known to the ICM by default:

|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|
| Finds system properties (environment variables, JVM options). For details see |
| |
| Finds any kind of configuration files (e.g. |
|
|
| Finds a single configuration file |
|
|
| same as | ||
| same as | ||
| Adds the support for transient configuration values |
| |
| Finds a single password file (containing an encrypted password) |
|
|
| Finds the configuration of the |
| |
| Finds the (global) configuration values stored inside the database (see |
| |
| Finds the application-specific configuration values stored inside the database (see |
| |
| Finds the defaults for the configuration values stored inside the database (see |
| |
| Finds the cartridge properties files located at:
|
| |
| Finds property- or xml-resources (inside a certain cartridge) located in:
|
|
|
| Similar to the |
|
|
| Finds configuration values in |
|
|

Configuration read/write values are implementations of `ConfigurationReader`

, `ConfigurationWriter`

and `ConfigurationSet`

interfaces.

`system`

FinderThe `system`

finder determines the configuration values from three different sources:

JVM system properties (the `-Dkey=value`

parameter during JVM startup)

(All) system environment variables

System environment variables prefixed by `ISH_ENV_`


The configuration values from these three different sources can overlap/override each other if they contain the same keys. Therefore, the priorities are defined as listed above (higher overrides lower).

The keys are taken as they are, for example, `intershop.jdbc.url`

can be found using the `intershop.jdbc.url`

key.

Additionally, all values are duplicated under the property-key namespace system, for example, `intershop.jdbc.url`

can also be found using the `system.intershop.jdbc.url`

key.

The keys are translated during lookup as follows:

Letters are translated into the upper case.

Dots (`.`

) are translated to underscore (`_`

).

For example, if an environment variable `INTERSHOP_JDBC_URL`

is defined, it can be found using the `intershop.jdbc.url`

key.

Additionally, all values are duplicated under the property-key namespace system. For example, `INTERSHOP_JDBC_URL`

can also be found using the `system.intershop.jdbc.url`

key.

Sometimes the translation mentioned above results in key collisions because the transaction is not a 1-to-1-function. For example, `intershop.servletEngine.connector.port`

and `intershop.servletengine.connector.port`

are both translated into `INTERSHOP_SERVLETENGINE_CONNECTOR_PORT`

. Therefore, there is a third variant that provides system environment variables:

All environment variables prefixed with `ISH_ENV_`

are picked.

The value of these environment variables is interpreted as a list of key-value-pairs separated by commas (`,`

).

For example, the environment variable `ISH_ENV_DATABASE=intershop.jdbc.url=jdbc:sqlserver://myhost:1433;database=icmdb;,intershop.jdbc.user=intershop,intershop.jdbc.password=topsecret`

provides the following three configuration values:

`intershop.jdbc.url=jdbc:sqlserver://myhost:1433;database=icmdb;`


`intershop.jdbc.user=intershop`


`intershop.jdbc.password=topsecret`


Starting with versions 12.4.8 and 13.2.0, there is an extended support for commas (`,`

) inside of configuration values. For example, providing the configuration property `intershop.authentication.inSPIRED-inTRONICS_Business-Anonymous.identityproviders = auth0,local`

would normally cause an error because of the comma between `auth0`

and `local`

. Now commas can be masked using `“`

; for example, `intershop.authentication.inSPIRED-inTRONICS_Business-Anonymous.identityproviders = auth0","local`

. This allows the framework to not interpret such commas as delimiters between two configuration values. A complete example may then look like this:

ISH_ENV_IDENTITYPROVIDER=intershop.identityProvider.remote = supported, intershop.authentication.identityprovider.auth0.type = oidc, intershop.authentication.identityprovider.auth0.name = Auth0, intershop.authentication.identityprovider.auth0.configuration = { "issuer": "https://provider.com/""," "client_id": "123456...""," "client_secret": "abcdef..." }, intershop.authentication.inSPIRED-inTRONICS_Business-Anonymous.identityproviders = auth0","local

The prefix `ISH_ENV_`

can be followed by any string (proposal: use something that matches the semantics of the contained configuration values).

When working with environment variables, be aware of the following restrictions (besides the size):

OS | Supports minus ('-') | Supports dot ('.') | Supports case sensitivity |
|---|---|---|---|
Windows | |||
Linux |

Values for environment variables can be retrieved from Azure Key Vault via K8s secret providers, see [Guide - Secret Store Process](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48919150593/Guide+-+Secret+Store+Process). This is a simple way to provide environment-specific secrets to the ICM Pod.

`keyvault`

FinderThe `keyvault`

finder determines configuration values of [Azure Key Vault](https://azure.microsoft.com/de-de/products/key-vault). This is an alternative to environment variables via Key Vault secret operator, see previous chapter.

The secrets that will be determined from the Key Vault are referenced by the `keys`

attribute of the set declaration:

e.g: `keys=database,mail `

will result in retrieval of secrets `database`

and `mail`

.

Each secret can contain a set of properties. A secret is comparable to proving the content of a **.properties* file.

Each secret’s value can have a content type assigned. The following content types are supported:

`application/json`

: the secret's value is interpreted as a JSON string where the structure is mapped onto property namespaces:

For example, the following JSON:

{ "intershop" : { "jdbc" : { "url": "jdbc:sqlserver://myhost:1433;database=icmdb;", "user": "intershop", "password": "topsecret" } } }

is equivalent to:

intershop.jdbc.url=jdbc:sqlserver://myhost:1433;database=icmdb; intershop.jdbc.user=intershop intershop.jdbc.password=topsecret

<none>: the secret’s value is interpreted as a list of properties (separated by line breaks)

If there are conflicts between the property keys of the read secrets, the order within the `keys`

attribute of the set declaration gets relevant: It defines the priority of the referenced secrets, with leading secrets getting a higher priority than trailing secrets, for example:

If configured as:

configuration set declaration |
<set finder="keyvault" scope="cluster,server,domain" uri="${IS_KEYVAULT_URI}" keys="${environment}-${staging.system.type},${environment},global" priority="900" enabled="${IS_KEYVAULT_ENABLED}" required="false"/> |

|
|
|---|---|
| intershop.jdbc.url=jdbc:sqlserver://${intershop.jdbc.host}:1433;database=${intershop.jdbc.databaseName}; intershop.jdbc.user=intershop |
| intershop.jdbc.host=sql-icm-mycompany-prd.database.windows.net |
| intershop.jdbc.databaseName=icm_live intershop.jdbc.password=prd_icm_live_pwd |
| intershop.jdbc.databaseName=icm_edit intershop.jdbc.password=prd_icm_edit_pwd |
| intershop.jdbc.host=sql-icm-mycompany-uat.database.windows.net |
| intershop.jdbc.databaseName=icm_live intershop.jdbc.password=uat_icm_live_pwd |
| intershop.jdbc.databaseName=icm_edit intershop.jdbc.password=uat_icm_edit_pwd |

The effective configuration values will be:

|
|
|
|---|---|---|
prd | live | intershop.jdbc.url=jdbc:sqlserver://sql-icm-mycompany-prd.database.windows.net:1433;database=icm_live; intershop.jdbc.user=intershop intershop.jdbc.password=prd_icm_live_pwd |
prd | editing | intershop.jdbc.url=jdbc:sqlserver://sql-icm-mycompany-prd.database.windows.net:1433;database=icm_edit; intershop.jdbc.user=intershop intershop.jdbc.password=prd_icm_edit_pwd |
uat | live | intershop.jdbc.url=jdbc:sqlserver://sql-icm-mycompany-uat.database.windows.net:1433;database=icm_live; intershop.jdbc.user=intershop intershop.jdbc.password=uat_icm_live_pwd |
uat | editing | intershop.jdbc.url=jdbc:sqlserver://sql-icm-mycompany-uat.database.windows.net:1433;database=icm_edit; intershop.jdbc.user=intershop intershop.jdbc.password=uat_icm_edit_pwd |

The configuration set will be configured with a finder and specific attribute values for this finder. Each attribute value can use the placeholder `"${key}"`

to reference an existing property of an upper scope. For example, the sets for domain scope can use `"cluster"`

-scoped configuration values.

The standard *configuration.xml* contains placeholders for system-specific folders and environments. The way it works, e.g., for environments is shown below:

The environment is defined in *environment.properties* (e.g., `"environment=PRD"`

), which is defined in scope `"instance"`

first.

All "PRD"-specific configurations can be placed in *PRD.properties* if the *configuration.xml* contains:

<set finder="property" scope="cluster,server,domain" fileName="${IS_CLUSTER_CONFIG}/system/config/cluster/${environment}.properties"/>

The domain-specific configuration is more complex since a regular expression is used to check the matched files (e.g., *PRD_uri.properties*):

<set finder="domain-folder" scope="domain" matches="^${environment}_[\w&&[^_]]*$" fileExtensions="properties,xml"/>

In case domain properties should be environment and staging type dependent (`staging.system.type`

mostly defined at` staging.properties`

), an additional line in the *configuration.xml* will load such property files (e.g., *PRD_editing_uri.properties*):

<set finder="domain-folder" scope="domain" matches="^${environment}_${staging.system.type}_[\w&&[^_]]*$" fileExtensions="properties,xml"/>

Sets support an attribute priority that is used for sorting (default: 50). This example declares a resource-based property file inside cartridge `demo`

with a high priority:

<set finder="resource" scope="cluster,server,domain" cartridge="demo" resourceName="config/cluster/demo.properties" priority="100"/>

For development purposes, a reloading mechanism of property files has been implemented. It can be enabled by setting `intershop.configuration.CheckSource`

to `true`

. The delay for checking (and necessarily reloading) the property files can be set using `intershop.configuration.CheckSourceInterval`

(which specifies the reloading interval in milliseconds).

Who should store configuration values and where?

A developer wants to open up an implementation for configuration values. So the developer has to include a line to get the configuration from the framework.

`String value = configurationMgr.getString(key, defaultValue);`


Providing a default value in here is the direct and best way to do it, because the code does not depend on any further configuration step.

A developer of an application type can override this `defaultValue`

via a cartridge property file, located in the cartridge source directory *resources/resources/<cartridge>/config*. These configurations are included in the *cartridge *configuration finder.

An administrator can declare configuration values via environment variables.

Business users' configuration values should be stored in the database. There are two ways to do this:

Application preferences (for functionality and behavior) and

Domain preferences (for data-related configuration)

The developer of the business management application is responsible for deciding on the correct location of the property.

Developers often define configuration values for different environments and domains. This can be accomplished with a custom *configuration.xml* declaration that can provide domain and environment-specific configuration values.

There is another scope called *service* with finder, reader, and writer. This scope is used for the [Managed Service Framework](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1759446169/Concept+-+Managed+Service+Framework)*.*

The finder creates URIs for the service scope that only the reader can read and only the writer can write to.

The reader creates *configuration sets* that look at the `ServiceConfigurationPOAttributeValuePO`

table using the `ServiceConfigurationPO`

that must be provided in the context used to retrieve the configuration values from the set.

The writer, on the other hand, writes to the same table, also using the `ServiceConfigurationPO`

provided in the context.

The *service* scope is sort of a standalone scope. When someone requests configurations from this scope, only one reader is triggered, which returns only one type of configuration set. Currently, this scope does not contain any properties other than properties from the `ServiceConfigurationPOAttributeValuePO`

table. For example, values from the *appserver.properties* or `PreferencePO`

table are not included. Of course, this can be changed at any time by creating a custom *configuration.xml* file.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.