---
id: '3ba6856aabe8adae52b3554488ba3d7d'
title: 'Deactivating or Deleting Promotion Codes'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3A2576'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:24.622040+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/3A2576

# Deactivating or Deleting Promotion Codes

## Manually Entering Promotion Codes to be Deactivated

To deactivate promotion codes by hand:
-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Marketing | Promotion Codes and switch to the Deactivate Promotion Codes tab.
This displays a text box.

-
Enter the promotion codes you want to deactivate.
Either enter the promotion codes manually or copy and paste them into the text box from another source. Make sure to place each promotion code on a separate line.

-
Click the Deactivate button, and click OK to confirm the operation.
The system will process the list of promotion codes and deactivate them. If the system cannot find a promotion code you entered, it will show an error and prompt you for action.


## Deactivating or Deleting Promotion Codes Via the Pormotion Code Group Manager

To delete or deactivate promotion codes using the promotion code group manager:
-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Marketing | Promotion Codes and switch to the Promotion Code Groups tab.
This displays a list of existing promotion code groups.

-
Click the name of the promotion code group that contains the promotion codes you wish to manipulate.
The General tab of the promotion code group is displayed.

-
Select the Codes tab.
The Codes tab shows a list of all promotion codes that belong to the promotion code group.

-
Select the checkbox next to the promotion codes to be deactivated or deleted.
-
Click the Deactivate or Delete button, then OK to confirm.
The selected promotion codes are deactivated or, respectively, deleted.


## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.