---
id: '3bc0f8272d36f02692b307aecad0c113'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/31V352'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:47.896143+00:00'
---
The caches for type code definitions and service permissions have been down ported from ICM 11.

The previous `TypeCodeDefinitionLRUCache`

has been replaced by a Guava-based cache. It has been applied to our implementation of the `TypeCodeRegistry`

, which previously did not directly rely on the cache. This change leads to a significant performance improvement as the `TypeCodeDefinitions`

are loaded from the database only once, then cached, and only reloaded from the database when the cache is cleared manually, by a job, or when the ICM is redeployed. This eliminates repetitive calls to the `TYPECODEDEFINITION`

table (e.g., to retrieve `ProductLinks`

) and reduces them to a single initial database call when first retrieving `TypeCodeDefinitions`

using the default `TypeCodeRegistry`

implementation.

The previous configuration property for `TypeCodeDefinitionLRUCache`

is still used, the Guava cache is initialized with `initialCapacity`

and `maximumSize`

provided by the following property:

intershop.cartridges.xcs.typecodedefinition.cache.size=<value>

A Guava-based cache has been applied to our implementation of `ServiceConfigurationBORepository`

. For each domain, it holds the service permissions that allow a service definition.

For more details about the Managed Service Framework, see [Concept - Managed Service Framework](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1759446169/Concept+-+Managed+Service+Framework).

In addition to clearing the cache manually, by a job, or by an ICM redeployment, a cache clear key of type `ServicePermissionPOKey`

is registered. Any `ServicePermissionPOKey`

will clear the entire cache. The cache can be configured using the following property:

intershop.caches.ServicePermissionPOByDomainAndAllowedCache.guava.config=initialCapacity=50,maximumSize=250,recordStats

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.