---
id: '3c71dee1670223566e6e4e1914517332'
title: 'Public Release Notes - Gradle Tools'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2G5943'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:52.432510+00:00'
---
Note

This Gradle tools version is included in Intershop 7 version 7.4.6.2.

This Gradle tools version is based on [Gradle 1.8](http://www.gradle.org/docs/1.8/release-notes.html).

The cartridge order determines the execution order in the DBInit, the lookup of pipelines, templates etc. The cartridge order can be configured in the assembly. You can now specify the order more flexibly.

Especially, you can derive the order of cartridges in your assembly from the order in an inherited assembly. The advantage of this approach compared with the *cartridge-order.txt* file is that cartridges added to the inherited assembly are automatically added to the cartridge order of your assembly.

See [Recipe: Add Cartridges to an Assembly](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1788155636#Cookbook-GradleAssemblyTools(validto7.8)-AddCartridgestoanAssembly) in the [Cookbook - Gradle Assembly Tools (valid to 7.8)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1788155636).

You can keep using your existing *cartridge-order.txt* file. In this case no action is necessary.

To derive the cartridge order from the order in an inherited assembly, perform the following steps in a developer environment:

Advanced Cartridge Order

This example assumes that your cartridge order consists of:

If you need to change the order of inherited cartridges or add your cartridges in the middle, please see [Recipe: Add Cartridges to an Assembly](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1788155636#Cookbook-GradleAssemblyTools(validto7.8)-AddCartridgestoanAssembly) in the [Cookbook - Gradle Assembly Tools (valid to 7.8)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1788155636).

`gradlew publish`

in your assembly.Add the following block to the *build.gradle* file of your assembly:

assembly { cartridges { // TODO: Replace by <org>:<name> of the inherited assembly // TODO: Replace ['cartridge_1', 'cartridge_2'] by the list of your cartridges in the desired order order = listFromAssembly('<org>:<name>') + ['cartridge_1', 'cartridge_2'] } }

`gradlew publish`

in your assembly to verify your migration.`publication`

attribute. (Or if any `dependency`

elements are permuted, make sure the change in cartridge order does not break your DBInit/application.)The multicast configuration through the deployment has been enhanced in several ways:

See:

The following DSL syntax in the *settings.gradle* file of the deployment is deprecated:

config { multicast { appserverMulticastAddress = '239.192.1.1' appserverMulticastPort = 50001 tcmMulticastAddress = '239.192.1.2' tcmMulticastPort = 50002 cacheMulticastAddress = '239.192.1.3' cacheMulticastPort = 50003 } }

Replace it by the following syntax:

config { multicast { appserver { address = '239.192.1.2' port = 50001 } tcm { address = '239.192.1.2' port = 50002 } cache { address = '239.192.1.2' port = 50003 } orm { address = '239.192.1.2' port = 50004 } } }

`FullContentFilter`

in DeploymentA new content filter was added to the deployment that can perform arbitrary operations on the whole content of the filtered file as a string. Using this filter covers most applications for which you previously had to create a customer content filter class.

See:

When rerunning the same Gradle based deployment multiple times the output did not display 'UP-TO-DATE' behind tasks that performed no effective changes. This is now fixed.

When [deploying as a developer](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1789069382) the start scripts in the deployed server now open Java debug ports for:

The ports can be configured in the *<ASSEMBLY>/environment.properties* (see *<ASSEMBLY>/environment.properties*.*sample*).

Note

This only works in conjunction with Intershop 7 version >= 7.4.6.2. In 7.4.6.1 the debug ports are still disabled for developers.

`shareDirectory`

for Webserver Deployment RemovedIt is no longer necessary to set the `shareDirectory`

property in the *settings.gradle* when deploying the host type 'webserver'.

Note

This only works for Intershop 7 version >= 7.4.6.2. If using 7.4.6.1 it is still necessary to set `shareDirectory`

to an existing, empty directory as a workaround when deploying host type 'webserver'.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.