---
id: '3cd5d41ed4eef2108dcc8cfdb5466105'
title: 'Cookbook'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/K25638'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:52.955045+00:00'
---
Note

This cookbook requires Intershop build and deployment tools version 1.x. How to deal with the Intershop build and deployment tools 2.0 for a later Intershop version is described here: [Cookbook - Hotfix Recipes](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1797458541/Cookbook+-+Hotfix+Recipes).

Due to technological development and security issues it is sometimes necessary to solve a problem in a production installation - very fast and with a minimum impact to other functions. For these cases Intershop introduced *custom fixes*. A custom fix contains only a minimum set of files that must be changed to solve a particular issue. To allow immediate use in production it **must not** contain changes of the API. The solution provided in a custom fix can be customer specific. The usage of a custom fix is an exception to handle an emergency issue in a production environment.

This document describes the workflow of building and using custom fixes with the Gradle-based build and deployment.

Within the Gradle build and deploy tools a custom fix is represented by a component. It shares most of the properties of a cartridge or infrastructure component:

A custom fix contains the following Ivy artifacts:

| FIle Name | Type | Description |
|---|---|---|
deploy.gradle | deploy-gradle | Describes the installation on the system and is used by the Gradle based deployment (r equired) |
<custom fix name>.jar | jar | Contains classes that need to be patched and new classes. Is deployed to <IS_HOME>\lib (optional) |
<custom fix name>.zip | local | Contains files that need to be patched in the local part of the installation (`IS_HOME` ) and new files for this location (optional) |
<custom fix name>.zip | share | Contains files that need to be patched in the shared file system ( |

The whole custom fix including all artifacts can be delivered as a single **.zip* file.

A custom fix typically patches code artifacts (pipelines, ISML templates, Java classes, shell scripts) from other components, i.e., it contains code artifacts with the same ID (file name/qualified class name etc.) as other deployed components. This requires some kind of conflict handling, i.e., it has to be determined which of the differing versions of the same code artifact to prefer at deployment or runtime. The *deploy.gradle* file of a custom fix makes sure that code artifacts from the custom fix will be preferred.

An unresolved conflict occurs if multiple custom fixes contain the same code artifact.

For Java classes the *jar*-file of the custom fix is deployed additionally to the original *jar*-file(s) and added to the beginning of the Java class path. While the original classes still reside in the original *jar*-files in the deployed system, class loaders will prefer classes from custom fixes.

There is no detection of collisions between two custom fixes for Java classes at deployment time.

All other code artifacts are physically replaced on the file level, i.e., the file from the custom fix is deployed instead of the original file. For this the *deploy.gradle* file of the custom fix declares to exclude the file from the deployment of the original component.

If two custom fixes try to deploy to the same target file however, the deployment will issue a conflict and fail. To solve the conflict you must either:

Part of the Intershop delivery is a template for a custom fix tool. This template is prepared for the project environment during the setup of development source artifacts (see [Cookbook - Setup CI Infrastructure (valid to GradleTools 1.1)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1788159848)). These scripts can also be generated separately:

cd <deliveries>\Intershop-<version>\development-setup ..\gradlew :createCustomFixTool

It is possible to store these scripts in an VCS. Part of this directory structure is also an example of a custom fix, which can be removed from the VCS.

custom-fix | Readme | +---builder scripts for publishing | | build.gradle Gradle build file | | gradle.properties configuration file of the custom fix | | gradlew[.bat] Gradle starter | | run.[bat|sh] start script for publishing | | | +---artifacts | | \---example example custom fix (name of the custom fix) | | deploy.gradle deploy script | | lib.jar library archive | | share.zip package for the shared directory | | | \---gradle Gradle wrapper | +---exporter scripts for the export | build.gradle Gradle build file | transfer.gradle Gradle build file | gradle.properties configuration file of the custom fix | run.[bat|sh] export start script | +---home-builder Gradle user home of the publishing process | gradle.properties configuration file with deployment user settings | init.gradle Gradle initialization script | +---home-expimp Gradle user home of the export and import | gradle.properties configuration file with deployment user settings | init.gradle Gradle initialization script | \---importer scripts for the import of a custom fix | build.gradle Gradle build file | import.gradle Gradle build file | import.properties configuration file (see 'Cookbook - Setup CI Infrastructure') | run.[bat|sh] import start script | +---artifacts folder for the unzipped custom fix \---repository

A developer created a jar file, a zip file for the shared file system and/or the local part of the deployed system containing patched and new code artifacts. The *deploy.gradle* file of the custom fix was prepared and adapted to exclude files from the deployment of the original components.

How can a developer or build engineer publish these artifacts as a custom fix to a remote artifact repository?

Edit the configuration file *<custom fix tool set>/builder/gradle.properties*

# custom fix configuration # name or id of the custom fix # note: this is also used for file names customfixName = <custom fix name> # group or organization of custom fix # this is used in the repository customfixGroup = com.intershop.customfix # version of the custom fix customfixVersion = 1.0.0.0

Start the command for publishing

| Working directory | <custom fix tool set>/builder |
| Windows command | `run.bat` |
| Linux command | `./run.sh` |

The artifacts for this process must be prepared by a developer manually. There is currently no automatic process for this step.

A custom fix is stored in a remote artifact repository. It is necessary to store it in a zip file, so that it can be sent to another location or environment via email.

How can a developer or build engineer export the custom fix from a remote repository to a zip file?

Start the command for export

| Working directory | <custom fix tool set>/exporter |
| Windows command | `run.bat` |
| Linux command | `./run.sh` |

The zip file of the delivery package is located in *<custom fix tool set>/exporter/target*.

This step is only necessary for transferring custom fixes across separate environments. In most cases one repository is used for one company or project and different environments, so exporting the custom fix is not necessary.

The custom fix was received in a *zip*-file as part of an email.

How can a build engineer or administrator import this custom fix to a remote repository of a certain environment?

```
```


Unzip it in the same directory without any changes.

Note

On a Windows system the path length can be limited. Move the directory of the custom fix tool set to a shorter path, so all Windows tools can handle it.



Check the *import.properties* for the correct settings. This file was also prepared in the setup of source artifacts for the CI environment (see [Cookbook - Setup CI Infrastructure (valid to GradleTools 1.1)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1788159848)).

# import properties for the Intershop artifacts # Which repository will be used? # remote - All artifacts will be transfered to a remote repostiors # like Sonatype Nexus or JFrog Artifactore or others. # This is the most recommended setting for a standard setup. # local - All artifacts will be transfered to a local repository. repo = remote # These are the settings for the remote repository. # # URL of the repository for Intershop releases # example: # target.repo.url = http://documentation:8081/nexus/content/repositories/releases target.repo.url = http://documentation:8081/nexus/content/repositories/releases # These are the user settings of an user with the permission to # upload artifacts to the remote repository. # example # deploy.user.login = admin # deploy.user.password = admin123 deploy.user.login = admin deploy.user.password = admin123 # This is the path for a other local repository. target.repo.dir = /local/repository



Start the command for import.

| Working directory | <custom fix tool set>/importer |
| Windows command | `run.bat` |
| Linux command | `./run.sh` |

The custom fix is now copied to the repository.

It is also possible to transfer the custom fix to a local repository. For this use case set the property `repo `

in the *import.properties * to `local`

.

The custom fix is uploaded to a repository in the CI environment of the customer.

How can a build engineer or adminstrator deploy this custom fix?

Deploying a custom fix involves two high-level steps, described in the next two sections.

The assembly must be modified to contain the custom fix. This is a (simple) development task.

The metadata of the Custom Fix can also be found in its delivery's *version.properties* file, e.g.

group=com.intershop.hotfix name=IS-1234 version=1.2.3.4

Use the values of those properties in the steps below.

To test the custom fix locally you may setup a full development environment as described at [Cookbook - Gradle Developer Workflow (valid to Gradle Tools 2.7)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1789069382). Alternatively you can just check out the assembly sources from your VCS.

In the VCS working copy of the assembly follow [the recipe Add Infrastructure Components To An Assembly](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1788155636#Cookbook-GradleAssemblyTools(validto7.8)-AddInfrastructureComponentstoanAssembly) in the [Cookbook - Gradle Assembly Tools (valid to 7.8)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1788155636). Add the custom fix to the host-type `appserver`

and `share`

.

assembly { ... hostTypes { appserver { include '<group of custom fix>:<name of the custom fix>' } share { include '<group of custom fix>:<name of the custom fix>' } } ... }

Add `version.<group of custom fix>.<name of the custom fix>`

`= <version number of custom fix>`

to the *gradle.properties* of the assembly. By using a fixed version number instead of a version expression like '+' you make sure that newer versions are not unexpectedly used upon next release of the assembly. See [section Configuring Dependency Versions](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1783302819/Concept+-+Gradle+Build+Tools#Concept-GradleBuildTools-ConfiguringDependencyVersions) in the [Concept - Gradle Build Tools](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1783302819/Concept+-+Gradle+Build+Tools).

After committing trigger your CI server to re-release the assembly. You may want to setup a "fast lane" release process next to your ordinary release process, see discussion.

Custom fixes are deployed for all environments, including development. The limitation here is: Developers will not compile against patched classes, but they will test against them at runtime.

To deploy the changed assembly including the custom fix on any (non-developer) system:

Depending on how you organized your production deployment, this may involved triggering Configuration Management Tools, using a VCS or custom scripts or manual actions.

When deploying to a cluster, trigger re-deployment on all cluster nodes with host-types `appserver`

and `share`

.

If your release process takes too long, because it involves too many steps like rebuilding the component set and creating a database dump, you may want to create a "fast lane" process for releasing the assembly with custom fixes. In this process (e.g., a separate build plan):

`releaseWithDump=false`

. This will not execute the DBInit.`publish`

task of the assembly, avoid running Gradle task `test`

.`version`

to something like `1.0.0.fastlane`

, where `1.0.0`

is your regular version number.This will only run the quick core of the assembly process, see [chapter Assembly Process](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1788153188/Concept+-+Gradle+Assembly+Tools#Concept-GradleAssemblyTools-AssemblyProcess) in the [Concept - Gradle Assembly Tools](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1788153188/Concept+-+Gradle+Assembly+Tools).

Even if you use this fast-lane approach the regular release will include the custom fixes as well, making sure that they will stay with the next custom fix/feature deployment.

You can always run the Gradle task `deploy`

in the directory of your *settings.gradle* for a full deployment. This will calculate the differences between the last deployment and this one and only touch these files. (See [section Modification Handling](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1775684692/Concept+-+Gradle+Deployment+Tools#Concept-GradleDeploymentTools-ModificationHandling) in the [Concept - Gradle Deployment Tools](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1775684692/Concept+-+Gradle+Deployment+Tools) for handling of files that were modified after deployment.)

For a faster deployment, that will only touch files coming with the custom fix, you may run a partial deployment. Run the Gradle task `:<custom fix name>:deployFiles`

for this. (This automatically replaces files by other, non-executed deployment tasks – like from the original cartridges.)

To undeploy a custom fix:

`:<cartridge>:deployFiles`

for all affected cartridges. (This also checks for all other files of the cartridges whether they are up-to-date with the repository contents.)The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.