---
id: '3cec73217ebe02c3ec8c475b69d859a7'
title: 'Job'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2955G0'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:38:03.416407+00:00'
---
Name | Delete Orders |
|---|---|
Domain | root / <Organization> |
Job Dependencies | none |
AcquiredResources | none |
Cartridge | bc_order_orm |
Pipeline | DeleteOrdersJob-Start |
Affected Domain Objects | Order and all POs with relation to orders |
Affected Tables | All tables with foreign key references to table Order.UUID. Additionally all hierarchical 'child' tables referencing the order table. (isorder, staticaddress, contractrevenueassignment, servicelineitem, frimservicelineitem, bundledproductlineitem, productlineitem, deliverynote, paymenthistory, paymenttransaction, lineitemgroup, ordercostobjectassignment, promotioncodeorderassignment, promotionorderassignment) |
Stored Procedure | sp_deleteOrders |
Default State | Disabled |
Is Site Specific | False |
Edit State | Disabled |
Live State | Disabled |
Description | Triggers order deletion with all according references. By default it deletes orders where the The status selection can be overwritten by defining the attribute It is also possible to define the maximum number of orders that are to be deleted during a run (default 10,000). Larger values are not recommended due to possible database problems/locks. The value can be overwritten by the attribute |
Scheduling | Manually after orders were marked for deletion |
What Happens Switched Off | Old orders marked as to be deleted (potentially mass data) still exist. |
Trouble Shooting | Manual deletion is quite complex. |
Comments | Introduced for GDPR. |

Product Version | 7.9 |
|---|---|
Product To Version | |
| Status |

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.