---
id: '3eccafe278316b088d62f71216304bd8'
title: 'Public Release Note'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/28444Q'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:37:46.063561+00:00'
---
# Introduction

Welcome to the Intershop 7 PAYONE Service Connector. The Service Connector adds PAYONE payment methods to your Intershop 7 installation.

This document provides important product information, including version information and dependencies. It also outlines the basic setup and configuration steps.

This delivery and the accompanying documentation are valid for the following combinations of software versions:

| Intershop | PAYONE Service Connector |
|---|
| 7.8.2.4 | 5.1.1 |
7.8.2.10+ 7.9.0.9+ 7.10.2.1+ | 5.4.3 |
7.8.2.10+ 7.9.4.0+ 7.10.15.3 - 7.10.30.x (Tomcat 7) | 5.4.8 |

The next table provides information about the cartridges included in the package. Not all of these cartridges are required.

| Cartridge | Description | Required |
|---|
*ac_payment_payone* | Includes all base functionality and business logic which is used. | |
*as_responsive_payone* | Enables the PAYONE payment connector for the following application types: *intershop.B2CResponsive**intershop.SMBResponsive*
The cartridge is optional, can be downloaded separately from Intershop Product Calendar and may be included if the project uses the responsive starter store. Unzip the file to your multi-project folder next to your responsive source files. It could be skipped if the custom project does not support these application types or PAYONE is not required in these application types. | |
*app_sf_responsive_payone* | Includes some additional functionality which is relevant for the responsive storefront reference application only, e.g., the integration of the hosted payment pages of the credit card. The cartridge is optional, can be downloaded separately from Intershop Product Calendar and may be included in case the project is based on the responsive storefront reference application. Unzip the file to your multi-project folder next to your responsive source files. The referenced cartridge *app_sf_responsive* may be renamed in the project and has to be referenced in the *build.gradle* file with the customized naming again. | |

The PAYONE Service Connector 5.4.+ is based on the Payment API 2.8.

The source for "*as_responsive_payone*" and *"app_sf_responsive_payone*" is available here

...YOUR_REPOSITORY.../releases/com.intershop.public.source/s_payment_payone/5.4.8/zips/s_payment_payone-zip-src-5.4.8.zip

## Preconditions

- The PAYONE Service Connector requires an installed Intershop 7 system. See version numbers above.
- Using the PAYONE Service Connector requires a dedicated payment provider contract with vendor PAYONE.

Make sure to contact PAYONE to negotiate and sign your payment provider contract.

## Supported Application Types

The PAYONE Service Connector can be used for the following application types:

| Application Type | Application Type ID | Description |
|---|
| B2C WebShop | `intershop.B2CWebShop` | Business to Consumer Channel |
| SMB WebShop | `intershop.SMBWebShop` | Business to Business Channel |

# Feature Overview

This section summarizes important features delivered with the PAYONE Service Connector.

## Payment Methods

The PAYONE Service Connector adds the following payment methods to your Intershop 7 system:

| Planned Release | Payment Method Type | Details |
|---|
| 5.1 | PayPal | PayPal |
| Online Payment | SOFORT Überweisung |
| 5.2 | Credit Card | Credit Card payment with:- Visa
- Mastercard
- American Express
- Carte Bleue
- Diners Club
- Discover
- JCB
- Maestro International
This payment method uses Payone iFrames to enable compliance with PCI-DSS. It supports 3DS version 1.0 and 2.0. |
| Account Based Payment | Cash in Advance |
| Direct Debit |
| Invoice |
| Online Payment | iDEAL |
| PostFinance E-Finance |
| eps |
| 5.3 | Online Payment | PostFinance Card |
| 5.4 | Online Payment | giropay |
| Account Based Payment | paydirekt |

Intershop's customers can safely use IS7 in PCI certified environments without impacting their certification status. Furthermore, IS7 provides features and configurability needed to implement all the requirements of the PCI Compliance program.

## Payment Management Options

The following table lists all options that are available for payment transactions.

| Operation | Description |
|---|
| Capture | Request for settling the payment. This action is only available if the corresponding payment method's Capture Mode is set to *manual*. |
| Cancel | Request for abandoning a payment settlement. This action is only available if the corresponding payment method's Capture Mode is set to *manual*. |
| Refund | Option to return (parts of) the capture amount. |

# Setup



## Precondition

The package is available via Intershop's Public Repository (Artifactory). The following preconditions are required:

- A set up and configured CI environment

See [Cookbook - Setup CI Infrastructure](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822571078/Cookbook+-+Setup+CI+Infrastructure) for details.

See [Concept - Continuous Delivery Tools (valid to 7.10)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1784317189) for basic information about continuous integration. - A running installation of Intershop 7.8 or later that matches the system requirements
- Knowledge of how to add the delivered artifacts to the continuous integration environment
- Knowledge of how to deploy to a test or production environment

## Setting Up the Assembly

To add the PAYONE Service Connector into your Intershop 7 system, you may either incorporate the cartridge into an already existing assembly or create a new assembly inheriting from an Intershop 7-based assembly. For details about the latter, see [Recipe: Create a New Assembly Inheriting From an Existing Assembly](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1826510692/Cookbook+-+Gradle+Assembly+Tools#Cookbook-GradleAssemblyTools-createInheritAssembly). For incorporating the cartridge into an already existing assembly, perform the following steps:

Add the following in the *build.gradle* file of the assembly:

...
cartridges {
def storefrontCartridges = [
'app_sf_responsive',
'app_sf_responsive_cm',
'app_sf_responsive_b2c',
'app_sf_responsive_smb',
'as_responsive',
'app_sf_responsive_b2b',
'app_sf_responsive_costcenter',
'as_responsive_b2b',
// this are the two cartridges, which we delivered in source code and you have to add these files to your responsive source project
'as_responsive_payone',
'app_sf_responsive_payone'
]
include(*(storefrontCartridges.collect { project(":$it") }), in:[development, test, production])
...
def payonePaymentProvider = [
'ac_payment_payone',
]
include (*(payonePaymentProvider.collect {"com.intershop.services.payment_payone:$it"}), in: [development, test, production])
order = listFromAssembly(baseAssembly) + payonePaymentProvider
}
...
assemblyBuild {
database {
inherit(<yourAssembly>)
initCartridges = []
}
}
...
configurations.all {
exclude group: 'com.sun.xml.bind', module: 'jaxb-impl'
}

Adapt the *app_sf_responsive_payone/build.gradle* file in the following way:


apply plugin: 'static-cartridge'
intershop
{
displayName = 'Adapter - Payment PAYONE - Business Extensions'
}
dependencies
{
// compile project(':ac_payment_payone') --> will be replaced by
compile group: 'com.intershop.services.payment_payone', name: 'ac_payment_payone'
compile group: 'com.intershop.platform', name: 'businessobject'
...
compile group: 'com.intershop.business', name: 'bc_payment'
// compile group: 'com.intershop.responsive', name: 'app_sf_responsive' --> will be replaced by
compile project(':app_sf_responsive')
...
}

Adjust the file *as_responsive_payone/build.gradle* in a similar way:


...
dependencies {
// compile project(':ac_payment_payone') --> will be replaced by
compile group: 'com.intershop.services.payment_payone', name: 'ac_payment_payone'
compile project(':app_sf_responsive_payone')
}
...

Insert the following lines into the file: `intershopBuild.version:`



com.intershop.services.payment_payone:ac_payment_payone = 5.4.8




For details about managing assembly artifacts, see:

## Defining File-Based Configuration

Before deploying the new assembly to a test or production environment, you may have to adjust some file-based configurations required by the PAYONE Service Connector.

The PAYONE Service Connector requires the following settings:

| Property | Description | Value |
|---|
| intershop.payment.Payone_Cash_In_Advance.currencies | Defines which currencies are configurable for PAYONE Cash in Advance. Default: EUR. | comma-separated list, e.g., EUR |
| intershop.payment.Payone_CreditCard.currencies | Defines which currencies are configurable for PAYONE Credit Card. Default: all. | comma-separated list, e.g., EUR, USD |
| intershop.payment.Payone_DirectDebit.currencies | Defines which currencies are configurable for PAYONE Direct Debit. Default: EUR. | comma-separated list, e.g., EUR |
| intershop.payment.Payone_Eps.currencies | Defines which currencies are configurable for PAYONE eps. Default: EUR. | comma-separated list, e.g., EUR |
| intershop.payment.Payone_IDeal.currencies | Defines which currencies are configurable for PAYONE iDEAL. Default: EUR. | comma-separated list, e.g., EUR |
| intershop.payment.Payone_Invoice.currencies | Defines which currencies are configurable for PAYONE Invoice. Default: EUR. | comma-separated list, e.g., EUR |
| intershop.payment.Payone_PayPal.currencies | Defines which currencies are configurable for PAYONE PayPal. Default: all. | comma-separated list, e.g., EUR, USD |
| intershop.payment.Payone_PostFinance_EFinance.currencies | Defines which currencies are configurable for PAYONE PostFinance E-Finance. Default: CHF. | comma-separated list, e.g., CHF |
| intershop.payment.Payone_PostFinance_Card.currencies | Defines which currencies are configurable for PAYONE PostFinance Card. Default: EUR & CHF. | comma-separated list, e.g., EUR, CHF |
| intershop.payment.Payone_Sofort.currencies | Defines which currencies are configurable for PAYONE SOFORT Überweisung. Default: EUR. | comma-separated list, e.g., EUR |
| intershop.payment.Payone_Giropay.currencies | Defines which currencies are configurable for PAYONE giropay. Default: EUR. | comma-separated list, e.g., EUR |
| intershop.payment.Payone_Paydirekt.currencies | Defines which currencies are configurable for PAYONE paydirekt. Default: EUR. | comma-separated list, e.g., EUR |

According to [Recipe: Change Deployed File Content With Filters](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1848547085/Cookbook+-+Deployment+Tools+ICM+7.10#Cookbook-DeploymentToolsICM7.10-ApplyContentFilter) this setting has to be overridden within *<IS_SHARE>/system/config/cartridges/ac_payment_payone.properties*.

For details about adding new configuration files, see [Recipe: Deploy Custom Files](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1848547085/Cookbook+-+Deployment+Tools+ICM+7.10#Cookbook-DeploymentToolsICM7.10-DeployCustomFiles).

## Deploying the Assembly

After creating and appropriately configuring the assembly, you must deploy it to the intended target environment.

For details about deploying an assembly see [Recipe: Run the Deployment (Initial Installation / Upgrade / Downgrade)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1848547085/Cookbook+-+Deployment+Tools+ICM+7.10#Cookbook-DeploymentToolsICM7.10-Run-the-Deployment).

# Configuration

## Adjusting Firewall Settings

Adjust your firewall settings to allow bidirectional HTTP and HTTPS traffic between Intershop 7 and:

[api.pay1.de/post-gateway/](http://api.pay1.de/post-gateway/)[secure.pay1.de/client-api/](http://secure.pay1.de/client-api/)

Make sure that the ViewPayone pipeline is accessible from the available PAYONE IP addresses only.

## Applying UI-Based Configuration

The PAYONE Service Connector requires some post-deployment configurations in Organization Management and Commerce Management.

Please consult the PAYONE documentation for information on how to set up your payment portal.

### Configuring the PAYONE Shop Portal

Aside from the standard PAYONE shop portal configuration that is described in the PAYONE documentation, you should also configure the TransactionStatus URL.

| Explanation | Image |
|---|
PMI: [https://login.pay1.de/](https://login.pay1.de/) 1. Enter *Username*. 2. Enter *Password*. 3. Click *Login*. | |
4. Click *Configuration*. 5. Click *Payment Portals*. 6. Select your portal and press *E**dit*. | |
7. Click *Extended*. 8. Enter *Success URL*. 9. Enter *Back URL*. 10. Enter *TransactionStatus URL*. (Set the *TransactionStatus URL* to point to the ViewPayone-Notify pipeline. Assuming there is no URL rewriting, it should look similar to this: '*https://<host>:<port>/INTERSHOP/web/WFS/<site>/<locale>/-/<currency>/ViewPayone-Notify'*. ) 11. Click *Save*. | |



### Enabling and Configuring a Payment Service

Check the available [Recipe - Enable a Payment Service](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822573547/Cookbook+-+Payment#Cookbook-Payment-Recipe-EnableaPaymentService) in the [Cookbook - Payment](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822573547/Cookbook+-+Payment) to get detailed instructions about enabling and configuring a payment service.



**Payment-Method-Specific Settings:**

| Name | Description |
|---|
| Merchant-ID | Your merchant account's merchant ID as provided by PAYONE. |
| Portal-ID | Your merchant account's portal ID as provided by PAYONE. |
| Sub-Account-ID | Your merchant account's sub account ID as provided by PAYONE. |
| Portal-Key | Your merchant account's portal key as provided by PAYONE (unencrypted). |
| Productive Mode | Switch between productive and test environment (unchecked, set as default). OR Check this checkbox on the live system. Leave unchecked for test environment. |
| Base URL | PAYONE Gateway URL. |
| Capture | This describes the capture mode (*Manual*, *Auto*). If *Timed* is used you must set a Capture Time in Hours. For all online payment methods (giropay, SOFORT Überweisung, iDeal, eps, Post-Finance EFinance and Post-Finance Card) capture must be set to *Auto*. |
| Bank Account Check | If checked, the bank account check is enabled. Available for Direct Debit. |
| Submit Order Details | If checked, product line items are transmitted to PAYONE. |
| Use PAYONE Mandate Management | Enables the usage of PAYONE mandate management. Available for Direct Debit. |
| Download mandate as PDF | Enables the download of PAYONE mandate as PDF. Available for Direct Debit. |
| Ask For CVC | Ask for Card Security Code (CVC/CSC/CVV/CID). Available for Credit Card. |
| Minimum Validity of Card | Minimum remaining validity of credit cards in months. Available for Credit Card. |


You can see the required PAYONE values by going to the *API-Parameter* tab of your PAYONE shop portal.

### File-Based Configuration

A part of the payment method configuration is not meant to be changed in the Commerce Management application and is available through server properties. These properties are read using the configuration framework and as such can be overridden for an application type. For more information on the configuration framework, check the available [Concept - Configuration (valid to 7.10.11)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1755483166) and [Cookbook - Configuration](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1755495298/Cookbook+-+Configuration).

#### Credit Card iFrame Styles

For the configuration of the styles the credit card payment method can be adjusted with following properties:

| Property | Values | Description |
|---|
| payment.payone.creditcard.<field>.size | Positive number | Determines the size of the input field. Default = 4 |
| payment.payone.creditcard.<field>.maxlength | Positive number | Determines the length of the input field. Default = 4 |
| payment.payone.creditcard.<field>.width | String | Determines the width of the iframe that holds the field. The unit of the width has to be specified the same way as it would be specified in a CSS style (e.g., 60px). |
| payment.payone.creditcard.defaultStyle.height | String | Determines the height of the iframe that holds the field. The unit of the height has to be specified the same way as it would be specified in a CSS style, Default = 34px |
| payment.payone.creditcard.defaultStyle.width | String | Determines the width of the iframe that holds the field. The unit of the width has to be specified the same way as it would be specified in a CSS style. Default = 250px |
| payment.payone.creditcard.defaultStyle.input | String | Default CSS style to be used with text fields. |
| payment.payone.creditcard.defaultStyle.select | String | Default CSS style to be used with select fields. |

1 - <field> identifies which PAYONE credit card field is affected by the property. Supported values are cardtypes, cardnumber, cardcvc2, cardexpiremonth, cardexpireyear, e.g., payment.payone.creditcard.cardcvc2.width.

#### Supported Countries

For each payment method a list of supported countries can be defined. A comma-separated list of ISO 3166 ALPHA 2 country codes (also see PAYONE API documentation) is valid. The value '*' can be used if there is no restriction.

| Property | Default |
|---|
intershop.payment.Payone_Sofort.countries | AT,DE,CH,NL |
intershop.payment.Payone_Eps.countries | AT |
intershop.payment.Payone_DirectDebit.countries | DE,AT |
intershop.payment.Payone_IDeal.countries | NL |
intershop.payment.Payone_PostFinance_EFinance.countries | CH |
intershop.payment.Payone_PostFinance_Card.countries | CH |
intershop.payment.Payone_Giropay.countries | DE |
intershop.payment.Payone_Paydirekt.countries | DE |
intershop.payment.Payone_PayPal.countries | * |
intershop.payment.Payone_Invoice.countries | * |
intershop.payment.Payone_Cash_In_Advance.countries | * |
| intershop.payment.Payone_CreditCard.countries | * |

## Localization

The PAYONE Service Connector provides English and German localization for payment-specific input field labels, error messages, etc.

You can find the existing localization files here: *<IS.INSTANCE.SHARE>/system/cartridges/ac_payment_payone/release/localizations.*

For details about localization, see:

# Data Handling

The following table describes transmitted data by the Payone Service Connector from ICM to Payone during the payment process:



| Description | Payone Payment Methods |
|---|
|
| Invoice | Cash in Advance | Credit Card | Direct Debit | EPS | GiroPay | Paypal | Sofort | Ideal | **PostFinance E-Finance**
| **PostFinance Card**
| **PayDirekt**
|
|---|
Amount | The amount for the transaction | | | | | | | | | | | | |
|---|
Currency | Currency code e.g. EUR/USD | | | | | | | | | | | | |
|---|
Customer details (e-mail, first name, last name) | Customer e-mail, customer first name, and last name | | | | | | | | | | | | |
|---|
reference (order id) | Order reference generated by the merchant | | | | | | | | | | | | |
|---|
Address details (street, zip, city, country) | Invoice and shipping address details provided by the user (optional and configurable in back office) | | | | | | | | | | | | |
|---|
de[line item details] | Array of product attributes, e.g. product name, value, discount, gift card (optional and configurable in back office) | | | | | | | | | | | | |
|---|
bankgrouptype | Issuer of Online-Bank-Transfer | | | | | | | | | | | | |
|---|
bankcountry | Country of the bank | | | | | | | | | | | |
|
|---|
Credit card details | Card number, CVC, expiry date Sensitive data is handled via PayGate iframes only and is never stored at the merchant. | | | | | | | | | | | | |
|---|
language | Language indicator to specify the language that should be presented to the customer | | | | | | | | | | | | |
|---|
Account holder name | Name of the account holder | | | | | | | | | | | | |
|---|
IBAN | International Bank Account Number | | | | | | | | | | | | |
|---|
BIC | Bank Identifier Code to be used for payment | | | | | | | | | | | | |
|---|
Browser information | Browser details like javaEnabled, language, colorDepth, timezone, screenHeight, screenWidth, windowSize | | | | | | | | | | | | |
|---|
Direct debit type | One time payment (single) Stored account (first/recurring) | | | | | | | | | | | | |
|---|



Symbol | Description |
|---|
| Transmitted |
| Not Transmitted |
| Optional |

# Limitations

## Gross Price and Taxation Calculation

The PAYONE payment service requires a gross-based price and tax calculation. That is, the price type and the price display must be set to *gross*, and a gross-based taxation service must be enabled.

## Supported Countries and Currencies

Most of the payment methods included in this package are specific for certain countries or currencies.

| Payment Method | Supported Countries | Supported Currencies |
|---|
| Direct Debit | DE, AT | EUR |
| eps | AT | EUR |
| iDEAL | NL | EUR |
| PostFinance E-Finance | CH | CHF |
| PostFinance Card | CH | EUR, CHF |
| SOFORT Überweisung | DE, AT, CH, NL | EUR |
| Invoice | * | EUR |
| giropay | DE | EUR |
| paydirekt | DE | EUR |

## Restricted Capabilities

**Cancel: **No "cancel" capability for eps, iDEAL, PostFinance E-Finance, PostFinance Card and SOFORT Überweisung implemented.**Refund: ** The "refund" business process works after a delay of 24 h minimum until the bank reported the status back to PAYONE. Since there is no possibility to retrieve this precondition from PAYONE, the refund cannot be disabled.

## Length of E-Mail Addresses

The length of e-mail addresses is limited to 50 characters on PAYONE side. Only 48 of these characters are usable because the at sign gets replaced by escape characters.

## Testing

The payment method Giropay cannot be tested using the PAYONE sandbox anymore. The feature in the sandbox has been deactivated by PAYONE by now.

# Changelog

## Version PAYONE/5.4.8

[PAYONE-476](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/o/62433) - Payone Cash in Advance authorizes unpaid Orders: Fix in notification handling for Cash in Advance payments

## Version PAYONE/5.4.7

- New Feature: added support for logging mechanism in ICM 7.10

## Version PAYONE/5.4.6

[PAYONE-198](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/o/39168) - Restriction messages for multiple buckets - Restriction messages for multiple buckets

[PAYONE-427](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/o/47953) - Page not found when last name is too short - Page not found when last name is too short

[PAYONE-430](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/o/48307) - Issue with saving card details - Issue with saving card details

## Version PAYONE/5.4.3

[PAYONE-319](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/o/33172) - PAYONE - Milestone 4 - giropay - Implementation of payment method Giropay

[PAYONE-323](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/o/33167) - PAYONE - Milestone 4 - paydirekt - Implementation of payment method paydirekt

[PAYONE-407](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/o/43847) - PAYONE - Refund Error on Orders with Bigger amount on B2B and B2C - Fix in validation and handling of amount values

[PAYONE-414](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/o/44280) - SOFORT: IBAN and BIC have no effect in PAYONE side - Removed input field IBAN and BIC for SOFORT Überweisung

[PAYONE-416](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/o/44323) - SOFORT: Need to disable Cancel capability - Cancel capability removed from SOFORT Überweisung

## Version PAYONE/5.3.6

[PAYONE-405](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/o/43560) - Payone wrong Notification processing - Notifications are not ignored when arriving before redirect (only relevant for ICM 7.8)

## Version PAYONE/5.3.5

[PAYONE-192](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/o/36252) - PAYONE - Invoice refund scenario issue - Refund capability for PAYONE Invoice was disabled via Intershop Commerce Management [PAYONE-341](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/o/40893) - Submit details not working in SOFORT - Transmit address information to PAYONE for payment method SOFORT Überweisung[PAYONE-342](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/o/40922) - Submit Order Details not working for PayPal - Transmit address information to PAYONE for payment method PayPal

[PAYONE-345](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/o/41016) - PAYONE B2B - 'Page not Found' error with Redirect scenarios - Payment methods using redirects are enabled for B2B application

[PAYONE-352](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/o/41426) - PAYONE B2B: Company first name not getting displayed in sandbox - First name of B2B customer will also be transferred to the PAYONE payment gateway

[PAYONE-353](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/o/41431) - PAYONE Paypal B2X: Cancel capability is not working - PayPal transactions in B2B application can be canceled now

[PAYONE-384](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/o/42255) - Cartridge ac_payment_payone_bo missing dependencies - Cartridge *ac_payment_payone_bo* missing dependencies

## Version PAYONE/5.3.0

Implementation of the PostFinance Card [PAYONE-324](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/o/40501) - Implement PostFinance Card into PAYONE 5.3.0 for ICM 7.9 and additional capabilities (capture, refund) for PostFinance E-Finance [PAYONE-217](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/o/40235) - Complete missing capabilities PostFinance E-Finance.

## Version PAYONE/5.2.4

When payment notifications are returned before the redirect process to the payment service provider was completed, the order status was not updated. The bugfix [PAYONE-199](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/o/39707) solves this specific timing issue for all payment methods using redirect after checkout.

## Version PAYONE/5.2.3

Migration of Credit Card, Invoice, Direct Debit, Cash in Advance, eps, iDEAL and PostFinance E-Finance to the new Payment API.

## Version PAYONE/5.1.1

Migration of PayPal and SOFORT Überweisung to the new Payment API.