---
id: '3f3c38e95fecb3d457e800a4ffd6c407'
title: 'Searching Customers'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/407L79'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:30:49.039763+00:00'
---
# Searching Customers

## Quick Customer Search

Using the quick search box, you can always search for customers regardless of the selected Order Management Tool page.

To use the quick customer search:

-
Select Customers in the dropdown list.
This enables the customer search in the quick search box.
-
Specify the customer number, then press ENTER or click the Search button.
This produces the search result and immediately opens the matching customer in the detail view. For more information about the search results page refer to
[Search Results Overview](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iom/master/iom_en/topics/getting_started/topic_general_search_options.html#search_results).Tip:The quick search box supports the wildcard characters ? and *.

## Simple Customer Search

The simple customer search is a widget that is available for the Order Management Tool homepage, see [User Interface Overview](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iom/master/iom_en/topics/getting_started/topic_user_interface_overview.html) and the Customers section.

To use the simple customer search:

- In the simple customer search widget, specify your search criteria.
-
Click Find.
This produces the search result and displays the matching customers in the result list. For more information about the search results page refer to
[Search Results Overview](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iom/master/iom_en/topics/getting_started/topic_general_search_options.html#search_results).Tip:Leaving the search criteria blank returns all customers as the search result.

## Advanced Customer Search

-
In the simple customer search widget, see
[Simple Customer Search](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iom/master/iom_en/topics/managing_customers/topic_searching_customers.html#task_buyer_search_simple), click Advanced customer search.This displays the advanced customer search. -
Specify your search criteria.
The corresponding fields are self-explanatory, see the image below. You can use the wildcard characters ? and * (see
[General Search Options](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iom/master/iom_en/topics/getting_started/topic_general_search_options.html#ov_ui_search)) for customer number, first name, last name, company, street/number, ZIP/postal code, city, e-mail, telephone. -
Click Find.
This produces the search result and displays the matching customers in the result list. For more information about the search results page refer to
[Search Results Overview](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iom/master/iom_en/topics/getting_started/topic_general_search_options.html#search_results).Tip:Leaving the search criteria blank returns all customers as the search result.

## Result List Options

You can customize the customer search result list to further refine your search, modify the result display, or trigger immediate actions.

| Option | Description |
|---|---|
| Allows to set the number of customers per result page. | |
| Allows to switch the result pages. | |
| Triggers the CSV file download (see
|

- Active
- Birthday
- City
- City area/District
- Company
- Country
- Cust.No.
- First name
- Last name
- Phone
- Salutation
- Shop
- Street name/house number
- Title
- Zip/Postal Code