---
id: '3f3fe8d783c01e7d1eff788c4889d693'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2928F6'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:29:50.147933+00:00'
---
This feature is available from ICM 7.10.16.6 but has been reworked with ICM 7.10.32.16-LTS.

Therefore, this document is valid from ICM 7.10.16.6 up to 7.10.32.15-LTS and 7.10.37.1. For ICM 7.10.32.16-LTS+ and 7.10.38.9-LTS+, refer to [Concept - Hybrid Approach (valid to 12.0)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/47923101697/Concept+-+Hybrid+Approach+valid+to+12.0).

This concept describes the implementation of the Hybrid Approach in ICM for the concurrent operation of the Intershop PWA and the classic storefront (Responsive Starter Store).

The API token login feature enables customers to log in to both the Progressive Web App (PWA), or any other REST-based clients, and the inSPIRED storefront.

This feature can be useful if certain elements of the PWA (e.g., product listing), but also elements of the inSPIRED storefront (e.g., checkout) should be used together in a project.

[PWA Hybrid Approach](https://github.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/blob/develop/docs/concepts/hybrid-approach.md) documentation in GitHub

The API token login can be enabled generally or domain-specifically. Therefore consider the following settings:

General:

In the *appserver.properties*, the following property must be configured:

**appserver.properties**

intershop.apitoken.cookie.enabled=true

Site-specific:

The same property `intershop.apitoken.cookie.enabled=true`

has to be set in the domain-specific configuration of the site.

The PWA must have cookies enabled. If this is the case, a cookie is written when a user logs in.

The cookie named `apiToken`

contains a JSON object with the API token. The attribute `'type'`

indicates the kind of authentication:

`'user'`

for registered users or

`'basket'`

for anonymous users to reference a basket

Other types will be ignored by Intershop Commerce Management (ICM).

When ICM starts handling a request and the cookie is present, ICM ensures that the user is logged in.

For technical reasons, it overwrites the PWA cookie with its own cookie. The difference is that another JSON attribute is added, which is called `creator=ICM.`


If the user is logged into the ICM but no cookie is available when the ICM takes over, the user will be logged out.

**Note**

The feature is based on the assumption that PWA and ICM can read and write each other's cookies. That means that both cookies must have the same domain and the same path. Therefore, the feature only works if PWA and ICM are running in the same domain.

When does ICM write the cookie?

The feature is active:

A user is logged in to ICM.

A PWA cookie (`creator`

is not `ICM)`

is detected.

When does ICM delete the cookie?

The feature is active:

The user logs out of ICM by himself/herself.

|
|
|---|---|
intershop.apitoken.cookie.enabled | 'true', if the feature should be active, otherwise anything else. |
intershop.apitoken.cookie.name | If the cookie should not be named ' |
intershop.apitoken.cookie.maxage | The maximum age of the cookie. Since our session is 60 minutes long, the default is 60. |
intershop.apitoken.cookie.comment | The API allows to set a comment, which can be set here. |
intershop.apitoken.cookie.sslmode | 'true', if the cookie should be SSL-only. The feature will not work if ICM or PWA still use HTTP. |

The pipeline `UserLogin`

is called. For the login, the start-node `LoginUser`

is called. For the logout, the start-node `Logout`

is called.

This pipeline does what is done for login and logout in the platform. In *f_business*, the pipeline is overwritten to call the pipelines for `ProcessUser`

.

If there are additional tasks in customer projects when a user is logged in, further overwriting may be necessary.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.