---
id: '403496a9e9be059b11f06adee3824460'
title: 'Remove Stock Reservation'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/277K87'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:38:21.286583+00:00'
---
URI | servlets/services/reservation/<resvId> |
|---|---|
Http Method | DELETE |
Short Description | Remove a stock reservation. |
Query Parameters | none |
Example Requests |
|

HTTP Status Codes

400 Bad Request

there is no reservation in the OMS system for parameter resvId

401 Unauthorized

404 Not Found

500 Internal Server Error

Description

Remove Stock Reservation - API

Used by shop systems to delete an existing stock reservation from the IOM system.

IOM supports "basic http authentication" only. Please configure your clients to use this authentication method. A very simple method to send REST requests on the command line can be realized using wget. The example also shows, how to configure this client to use "basic http authentication" (--auth-no-challenge).

wget -q -O- --auth-no-challenge --http-user=<user> --http-password='<password>' \ --method=delete http://<hostname>/servlets/services/reservation/115

`oms.RightDefDO`

with ID = 124 and name "Reservation REST service") is assigned to the requesting user. The permission is a part of the class `bakery.persistence.dataobject.configuration.common.RightDefDO`

.JSON

Request data format | No Content |
|---|---|
Request related java object | n/a |
Request data example | n/a |
Response data format | No Content |
Response related java object | n/a |
Response data example | n/a |
| Response Code | 204 |

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.