---
id: '4035bacc2b7cdb58eb8486cec361273c'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/30S615'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:24.821254+00:00'
---
This document describes the SMC job *ProcessActivePromotionProducts* and provides recommendations on how to use it.

The job gets automatically created for each channel and usually runs once per day at 10 pm, see [job description](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Concept-SMCJobProcessActivePromotionProducts-job_pipeline_description).

It checks all promotions which are related to products via inclusion/exclusion for promotion conditions and promotion discounts, see [ICM Online Help | Discount Rules](https://docs.intershop.com/icm/7.10/olh/icm/en/online_marketing/topic_discount_rules.html) for details.

The result is a list of all products developed with promotions stored in the *ActivePromoProducts* table. It is used in the storefront to show the customer which product might be cheaper due to a promotion.

| Term | Description |
|---|---|
| ICM | Intershop Commerce Management |
| SMC | Intershop System Management |
| Job | A process in ICM which can be triggered manually or automatically via scheduling in SMC. It performs tasks that, among other things, improve the performance of the ICM system, see |

The *ProcessActivePromotionProducts* job is available for each channel.

The Jobs *ProcessActivePromotionProducts_beta* and *ProcessActivePromotionProducts_both* are new and are created manually. They will be described later in detail.

The pipeline has three start nodes: *Start*, *Start_Beta*, and *Start_Both*. *Start_Beta* and *Start_Both* are available from ICM 7.10.38.0.

For further details, see the following sections.

*Start *performs basic tasks that lead to the creation and removal of data from the *ActivePromoProducts* table:

*Start_Beta* basically does the same thing, but uses mainly queries, while the *Start* node uses only a few queries and mainly pipeline logic.

This node is called Beta because it is experimental. It has not yet been tested with real customer data. Therefore, it is hard to make a statement about its accuracy and performance.

A dry run option has been added to test the successful execution of the job before changing the data in the database, which allows comparing the results of both jobs without changing the data.

It is described in detail in the following section.

The updated job has the same configuration, except that it uses the start node *Start_Beta*.

To use to the updated job, enter *Start_Beta* as Startnode:

In the *Attributes* tab add *DomainName* with type *String* and the channel name as its value (e.g., *inSPIRED-inTRONICS*).

Furthermore, the DryRunMode might be enabled by adding the attribute *DryRunMode* of type *String* with value *true*.

The *ActivePromotionProductsDryRunLog* attribute shown in the screenshot is described in the next section.

The configuration DryRunMode has been added to run the job and compare the results of both jobs without breaking anything.

The DryRunMode runs all the logic to analyze the data but only writes detailed debug log entries and a summary into the *Attributes *tab attribute *ActivePromotionProductsDryRunLog*.

Here is an example that shows what kind of data might appear in the *ActivePromotionProductsDryRunLog* attribute if there are differences. It contains promotion UUIDs and product UUIDs to make it easier to find the problematic promotion configuration:

SetActivePromoProductsV2-Summary - createdCount:4 - removedCount:3 - existingCount:417 - postRemovedCount:2 - RunDate:2021/Nov/23-11:07:17 Removed DtysGwQxfeQAAAF9FRdpuC_3 | ThsKDgAXUfMAAAF9vlZJeAo. Removed DtysGwQxfeQAAAF9FRdpuC_3 | V7sKDgAXuegAAAF9CklJeAo. Removed DtysGwQxfeQAAAF9FRdpuC_3 | g2sKDgAXHyQAAAF9CUlJeAo. Created DtysGwQxfeQAAAF9FRdpuC_3 | 19AKDgAXYb4AAAF9hklJeAo. Created DtysGwQxfeQAAAF9FRdpuC_3 | ow8KDgAXD20AAAF9gElJeAo. Created DtysGwQxfeQAAAF9FRdpuC_3 | adMKDgAXOXIAAAF9fElJeAo. Created DtysGwQxfeQAAAF9FRdpuC_3 | p_UKDgAXmDsAAAF9iklJeAo. SetActivePromoProductsV2-PromotionUUID:DtysGwQxfeQAAAF9FRdpuC_3-createdCount:4-removedCount:3-existingCount:166 Erased(PostRemoved) 28SsGwQxmzEAAAF9zSppuDLq | tk0KDgAXHA8AAAF9HWBJeAo. Erased(PostRemoved) 28SsGwQxmzEAAAF9zSppuDLq | viYKDgAX2A4AAAF9NGBJeAo. RemoveActivePromoProducts-PromotionUUID:28SsGwQxmzEAAAF9zSppuDLq - postRemovedCount:2 RemoveActivePromoProducts-over-all-promotions-PostRemovedCount:2

If everything works smoothly, only data such as *SetActivePromoProductsV2-Summary - createdCount:0 - removedCount:0 - existingCount:432 - postRemovedCount:0 - RunDate:2021/Dez/01-21:13:55* is displayed.

If this is the case, the *Start_Beta* job start node can replace the *Start Job* start node entirely. Do not forget to disable *DryRunMode* by either removing the attribute or setting its value to anything but *true* (e.g., *false* or *not_true*).

Note

The *ActivePromotionProductsDryRunLog* attribute value does not always change and is not automatically removed. Therefore, check *RunDate* to make sure that the data belongs to the last run.

Start Node: Start_Both

As the name implies, this node executes both, *Start* and *Start_Beta*, one after the other. By using this configuration, the start node *Start_Beta* always runs in DryRunMode.

With mass data, running this can take some time to execute, so, run this only on test systems and never on live ones.

Intershop recommends to enable the debug log and select the package *com.intershop.component.marketing.pipelet.promotion* as category.

This provides a lot of data, which can be used to analyze if something is wrong or if there are differences.

*Start_Both* basically uses the same configuration as *Start_Beta*, except that it uses *Start_Both* as start node.

In the *Attributes* tab add *DomainName* with type *String* and the channel name as its value, e.g., *inSPIRED-inTRONICS.*

Furthermore, the DryRunMode might be enabled by adding an attribute *DryRunMode* of type *String* with value *true*.

The attribute *ActivePromotionProductsDryRunLog* shown in the screenshot is described in section [Description of DryRunMode](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Concept-SMCJobProcessActivePromotionProducts-DryRunMode_desc).

If there is more than one channel on which this job must be executed, the start time should be set with a five-minute delay per channel.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.