---
id: '4217264fc92192027aae76b6318bf97f'
title: 'Changing Logging Settings'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/33761Y'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:30:49.796899+00:00'
---
# Changing Logging Settings

Changing the logging settings via Intershop System Management means customizing the level filters and category assignments for the existing appenders.

## Selecting the Settings Scope

First choose whether to define cluster-wide or application-server-specific logging settings:

-
To define cluster-wide settings, open Logging | Cluster Wide Settings in the Intershop System Management navigation bar.

-
To define application-server-specific settings, proceed as described in

[Define Settings Scope](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/smc_en/topics/logging/task_define_settings_scope.html#define_settings_scope), and apply the Use Application-Server-Specific Settings option.

## Setting the Level Filter

-
Open the Logging Settings for the cluster or an application server.
See
[Define Settings Scope](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/smc_en/topics/logging/task_define_settings_scope.html#define_settings_scope)for details. -
In the Appender section, click the appender to change.
The appender's detail page is displayed.
-
In the Level Filter section, select the filter level to use.
-
Click Apply to save your changes.
Clicking Reset reverts to the last saved state.

## Managing Categories

### Assigning Categories

-
Open the Logging Settings for the cluster or an application server.
Note:When choosing an application server, change the Settings Scope to Use Application-Server-Specific Settings and click Apply.
-
In the Appender section, click the appender to change.
The appender's detail page is displayed.
-
In the Assigned Categories section, select the required categories.
Before setting the required category level, you must select a root category (with
`additivity="false"`

) that limits the appender inheritance, see[Guide - Application Logging Administration](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/F27728)).The category drop-down list allows for selecting all sub categories of the given root category that are not already included. -
Click Assign to save the selected category with the appender.
Clicking Back to List returns you to the Appender List overview page without assigning the category to the appender.

### Viewing Sub Categories

Categories may include sub categories that are included automatically when creating assignments for appenders.

- Open the Logging Settings for the cluster or an application server.
-
In the Appender section, click the appender to change.
The appender's detail page is displayed.
-
In the Assigned Categories list, click the name of an assigned category.
The Sub Categories page is displayed.
- Click Back to return to the appender's detail page.