---
id: '42e40938ec781821dbf66d55ef44bd22'
title: 'Creating a New Product Data Feed Configuration'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/C32228'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:52.940236+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/C32228

# Creating a New Product Data Feed Configuration

To create a new configuration for product data feed:
-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Catalogs | Product Data Feeds from the navigation bar.
A list of all configurations currently defined is displayed.

-
Click New.
The General page of the new configuration is displayed.

-
Provide general information as required.
Mandatory information includes name and ID for the new configuration. Optionally, a description can be provided. Select or deselect the Enabled check box to enable or disable the configuration, respectively.

-
Click Apply.
The new configuration is created. All other tabs become active.

-
Change to the other tabs to define the target, schedule, and product assignments as required.

## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.