---
id: '43483bf90d919a6b61b86a589055773c'
title: 'Component Sharing'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/4F1238'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:30:34.952935+00:00'
---
# Component Sharing

This section describes how to customize shared content and revert local changes.

The Design View supports component sharing, which allows certain components to be reused across multiple channels (e.g., different storefronts or language versions).

Shared components are clearly marked by the shared icon () and can be overridden locally if needed. When a value has been overridden locally, it is indicated by a pencil icon () next to the field.

## Editing a Shared Component

Editing shared components is done exactly the same way as for non-shared components, see [Editing a Component](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iap/master/cmc_en/cmc/content_editing/topic_content_editing.html#task_editing_a_component).

## Reverting Local Changes

To discard local changes and return to the shared version:

- Select the shared component to be edited.
-
Click
**Revert**in the component toolbar.Arrow icons () will appear next to the overridden fields. -
Click Revert All to revert everything to the inherited values.
Alternatively, to revert individual values only:
- Click the arrow icons next to the fields you want to revert.
- Click Submit.

This updates your component.

## Use Case: Customizing Shared Footer Content

Typically, the footer is shared across all channels to ensure consistency. However, in some cases, you may want to tailor it to a specific shop – for instance, adding localized contact information or region-specific links.

To customize the footer:

- Open the shared footer component.
- Edit a specific text, such as the contact e-mail or legal notice.
-
Click Submit to save your changes.
A pencil icon () indicating that the content has been overridden will appear next to the edited value.

Your change now applies only to the selected channel, while other channels keep the original shared version.