---
id: '438f464067ad563981375e529ce2377d'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2Z8560'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:39:41.318475+00:00'
---
A cartridge is a code container for implementation artifacts like templates, pipelines, Java code etc. that provide business logic or technical functionality to Intershop 7.

Cartridges are the building blocks and deployment containers of an Intershop-7-based application. Cartridges can be installed (deployed) on an Intershop 7 server in order to make the functionality implemented by the application units available on the server.

Thus, cartridges are the standard mechanism for packaging and deploying Intershop 7 applications.

Any objects and entities defined at the different architectural layers (persistence layer, business object layer, presentation layer) are distributed over a set of cartridges.

The cartridge concept provides a uniform and easy-to-handle way of integrating new code components into Intershop 7. All new applications to extend and/or customize Intershop 7 must abide by the organizational principles that the cartridge concept imposes, no matter whether the application is simple or complex.

Cartridges and their structure and usage are extensively documented in the *Intershop 7 Application Programming Guide* distributed with *Intershop 7* (see */docs/pdf/is7_dev_programming.pdf* or in the Intershop Knowledge Base) and the *Intershop Studio *(see Help | Help Contents | Intershop 7 Application Programming Guide | Cartridge Development).

The following files in *<IS_SOURCE>/<cartridge_name>* are deployed to *<IS_SHARE>/system/cartridges/<cartridge_name>/release*:

Source Project | Deployed | Contents |
|---|---|---|
|
| Java code (such as business objects, persistent objects, provider classes, or pipelets) |
| /lib/<cartridge_name>.jar | Non-Java code (such as orm files, additional pipelet files, dbinit and dbmigrate properties files) (since 7.10.1.8) Cartridge properties can be located in the |
/src/test/java | Java code (unit test cases) | |
| Non-Java code (unit test cases) | |
| /ivy.xml | The cartridge definition declaring, e.g., display name, version and build numbers, and dependencies. |
/edl | /edl | EDL models |
| /model | EMF Metamodels | |
|
| JAXB XML schemas and configuration files used as a base to generate Java classes. |
|
| Database initialization properties, see |
|
| Migration steps executed by DBMigrate, see |
|
| Configuration files, see |
|
| Component definitions, see |
|
| Extensions, see |
|
| Default configurations for import and export processes, see |
|
| Required libraries (usually |
/staticfiles/cartridge/logback (from 7.10) | /logback | cartridge logback file, see
|

*/staticfiles/cartridge/localizations*

*/localizations*

Localization bundles, see [Concept - Localization](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1754628275/Concept+-+Localization)

*/staticfiles/cartridge/pagelets*

*/pagelets*

Pagelets provided by this cartridge, see [Concept - CMS - Overview](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1812634508/Concept+-+CMS+-+Overview) or *Intershop 7 Application Programming Guide*

*/staticfiles/cartridge/pipelines*

*/pipelines*

Pipelines, see *Intershop 7 Application Programming Guide*

*/staticfiles/cartridge/queries*

*/queries*

Queries, see *Intershop 7 Application Programming Guide*

*/staticfiles/cartridge/static*

*/static*

Static content like static HTML, images, and scripts (possibly locale-specific), see *Intershop 7 Application Programming Guide*

*/staticfiles/cartridge/templates*

*/templates*

ISML templates (possibly locale-specific), see *Intershop 7 Application Programming Guide*

*/staticfiles/cartridge/webforms*

*/webforms*

WebForms, see *Intershop 7 Application Programming Guide*

*/staticfiles/cartridge/webservices*

*/webservices*

Web Service Deployment Descriptors (wsdd)

The following files in *<IS_SOURCE>/<cartridge_name>/staticfiles/share* are deployed to `<IS_SHARE>`

:

Folder | Description |
|---|---|
| XML schema files for import and exports |
| Administrative properties of a cartridge, see This location for In the standard product all logback adapters are moved to layer |
| Site-specific files |

Meta data of a cartridge include the display name, version, build number and the dependency list.

Starting from version 7.4.6 CI Gradle build tools are used to manage dependencies at source code level. The server will contain ivy files with specific version numbers. See section [Cartridge Meta Data at Runtime](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Concept-Cartridge(validto7.10)-CartridgeMetaDataatRuntime) for details.

apply plugin: 'java-cartridge' intershop { displayName = 'Platform - Core Infrastructure' description = 'The core infrastructure cartridge' } dependencies { compile project(':component') // dependencies inside of multi project compile 'javax.inject:javax.inject' // external dependencies, depending on version of gradle tools }

Versions are defined at central point of a multi project cartridge via version or filter plugin. The filter plugin reads and provides all versions of the given element (set, assembly). For more information see [Concept - Gradle Build Tools](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1783302819/Concept+-+Gradle+Build+Tools).

version.com.intershop.3rd_oracle = 11.2.0.3.+ filter.com.intershop.infrastructure.set.p_infrastructure = 1.1.0.1

The cartridge engine (*pf_cartridge*) is responsible to load the meta data of cartridges listed in *<IS_SHARE>/system/cartridges/cartridgelist.properties* at startup of particular Java applications like the Intershop Application Server, DBInit and DBMigrate tool:

cartridges = tools pf_cartridge pf_objectgraph pf_objectgraph_guice servletengine ...

The Order of Cartridges

The order of cartridges in this list is important: A cartridge can only depend on cartridges listed before itself. Also, pipelines and templates from cartridges further down in the list override/replace those from cartridges higher in the list in the context of a particular `ApplicationType`

(see: [Concept - Application Framework](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1917324476/Concept+-+Application+Framework)).

The deployment script/plugin of a cartridge must at least deploy its *ivy.xml* file into the cartridge folder (*CARTRIDGES_DIR/<cartridge>/release*). This is necessary because the cartridge engine tries to look up meta information for all entries of *cartridgelist.properties* when running the application server or DBInit. The `CartridgeDeploymentPlugin`

Gradle plugin takes care of this task.

For more detailed information please refer to [Concept - Gradle Assembly Tools](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1788153188/Concept+-+Gradle+Assembly+Tools) and [Cookbook - Gradle Assembly Tools](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1826510692/Cookbook+-+Gradle+Assembly+Tools).

* Apache Ivy * is used to manage the meta data of a cartridge during runtime. The corresponding file is located at:

<ivy-module version="2.0" xmlns:e="http://ant.apache.org/ivy/extra"> <info organisation="com.intershop" module="core" revision="${version.number}.${build.number}" status="SNAPSHOT" publication="20121129123548"> <description>The core infrastructure cartridge</description> <e:displayname>Platform - Core Infrastructure</e:displayname> </info> <configurations> <conf name="runtime" visibility="public" description="Runtime configuration" /> <conf name="compile" visibility="public" description="Compile time configuration" extends="runtime" /> </configurations> <publications> <artifact name="core" type="jar" conf="compile"/> </publications> <dependencies> <dependency org="com.intershop" name="tools" rev="${version.number}" conf="runtime->runtime;compile->compile" /> <dependency org="com.intershop" name="pf_cartridge" rev="${version.number}" conf="runtime->runtime;compile->compile" /> ... <dependency org="com.intershop" name="messaging" rev="${version.number}" conf="runtime->runtime;compile->compile" /> <dependency org="com.intershop" name="businessobject" rev="${version.number}" conf="runtime->runtime;compile->compile" /> </dependencies> </ivy-module>

In the administrative properties it is possible to define a lifecycle class for the cartridge (*<IS_SHARE>/system/config/cartridges/<cartridge>.properties : *

`intershop.cartridges.<cartridge>.classname`

), which needs to be derived from `com.intershop.beehive.core.capi.cartridge.Cartridge`

providing appropriate lifecycle methods. This controller is responsible for managing the lifecycle of global objects that depend on the lifecycle of the application server.Please reduce the functionality inside of the cartridge class. We will remove this mechanism in future releases. Your global instances should be registered and instantiated via [Dependency Injections and Object Graphs](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1774817917/Concept+-+Dependency+Injection+and+ObjectGraphs).

An Intershop application consists of the following architectural layers with corresponding cartridge types:

7.8 Cartridges must be named according to the architectural level that they represent:

Layer | Cartridge Type | Description | Typical Contents | Cartridge Naming | Java Package Naming | Example |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Configuration Layer | Demo Cartridge | Contains demo data for application, this data is optional | product xml files, images, demo content | demo_* (deprecated naming ucm_*) | com.intershop.demo.* | demo_responsive (ucm_demo) |
Initialization Cartridge | Configures and initializes one or more applications in the database (like initial user accounts, organization structures, preferences etc.), this data is necessary to use the applications | import files, dbinit property files | init_* | com.intershop.init.* | init_operations | |
Application Suite Cartridge | Configures, instantiates and integrates multiple application types to form a complete business scenario | app and instance component files | as_* | com.intershop.appsuite.* | as_system | |
Application Layer | Application Cartridge | Provides user interfaces that can be composed to an application type | view pipelines, ISML templates, ... | app_* | com.intershop.application.* | app_sf_webshop_smb |
User Interface Cartridge | Provides a common user interface library which is used to develop application types based on the same technology | ISML templates, pipelines, JavaScript libraries, stylesheets, web forms, pagelets | ui_* | com.intershop.ui.* | ui_web_library | |
Business Layer | Business Cartridge | Provides a business API and/or an implementation for shared reusable business components | Java code, business objects and extensions, pipelets, EDL models, persistent objects, database scripts, queries | bc_* | com.intershop.component.* | bc_basket |
Adapter Cartridge | Provides an implementation for a business API, which integrates external systems, like external search engines | Java code, jar files | ac_* | com.intershop.adapter.* | ac_payment_paypal | |
Platform Layer | Platform Cartridge | Implements shared platform frameworks that are needed across all architectural layers | Java code, EDL models, pipelets, Jar files | pf_* | com.intershop.beehive.* (deprecated) | pf_objectgraph |
| (none) | Business Independent Functionality | Standard gradle, maven project (Single Project) | no prefix | com.intershop.common.* | encryption | |
| Development | Development cartridges are introduced to give more insides into the existing data or processing. These cartridges are used for developers only and installed on development environment only. For example explain data structure of basket calculation rule results; extended logging via lillith tool | all | _dev postfix or dev_ prefix |

The different cartridge types have well-defined allowed dependencies with each other. The cartridge type is reflected in the cartridge name.

Cartridge Dependency Rules

The dependencies can also be expressed in a matrix: the rows represent the using layer, the columns represent the used layer:

Cartridge Type | Development | Initialization | Application Suite | Application | User Interface | Adapter | Business | Platform | Common Library |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Development Cartridge | |||||||||
Initialization Cartridge | |||||||||
Application Suite Cartridge | |||||||||
Application Cartridge | |||||||||
User Interface Cartridge | |||||||||
Adapter Cartridge | |||||||||
Business Cartridge | |||||||||
Platform Cartridge | |||||||||
| Common Library |

As you may have noted, common libraries **must not** depend on other common libraries. These components can use open source (MAVEN) available libraries. The *platform* is responsible to bring these libraries together.

This way it is possible to ensure that all Intershop Products (OMS, ICI, IS7) are able to use these components.

Initialization cartridges are different from normal implementation cartridges because they are usually only used at initialization time of the system (e.g., dbinit). After all content has been prepared and is available in the database/file system, they are no longer needed. The name of an initialization cartridge should reflect the content that is initialized by the cartridge.

Examples:

Cartridges on the same architectural level may form hierarchical structures, where some base functionality that is defined in one cartridge can be refined in additional sub-cartridges. The hierarchy is expressed in the naming of the project.

Example:

The hierarchy in the cartridge name is also reflected in the Java package names of the cartridge. Each additional fragment in the cartridge name is translated to an equivalent level in the Java package name.

Example:

There are cartridges containing integration API tests that test a specific cartridge. The naming of these cartridges should follow the rule: *<cartridge>_test*, e.g.:

Cartridges in customer projects should follow the same principles as Intershop cartridges. However, to make a distinction easier it is recommended to prepend an identifier for the vendor into the cartridge name, like (Customer "XYZ"):

Any cartridge may define an API (for example, using the common CAPI package convention) and / or provide an implementation (that must be located in *internal* packages, as usual). There may be cartridges that only consist of API and other cartridges that only consist of implementation code, and some cartridges may contain both. There is no special naming for pure API cartridges, as every cartridge is considered to be "equal". If the purpose of an implementation cartridge is to provide the implementation for a certain technology, this should be reflected in the cartridge name.

Example:

Package Examples:

Common package name build pattern for cartridges:

`com.intershop.component.product.configuration`

.This way you can avoid conflicts with other cartridges if these cartridges use the same pattern and preferred sub-packages (capi, internal, dbinit, pipelet).

When developing a new application, a developer could start on the application layer. It is perfectly okay to put **all** the implementation code into this application cartridge, including application definitions, templates, pipelines, business objects, persistent objects and so on. When developing another application, this application could also be completely "self-contained". However, this approach is not very useful, since everything would have to be implemented again and again. Instead, we want to benefit from a maximum reuse of code and existing concepts. Therefore, the common approach is to create "abstractions" or "generalizations" of concepts and move them to the lower architectural layers. This also means that such abstractions must be designed for reuse in multiple different contexts.

Examples:

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.