---
id: '445f95083029049938c357b4ca6c4409'
title: 'Searching Orders'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/40794R'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:30:42.916192+00:00'
---
# Searching Orders

## Quick Order Search

-
Select Orders or RMA in the dropdown list.
This enables the order search in the quick search box.
- Specify the order number (when selected Order) or an RMA number (when selected RMA).
-
Press ENTER or click the search button.
This produces the search result and immediately opens the matching order in the detail page, see
[Order Detail Page Overview](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iom/master/iom_en/topics/managing_orders/topic_order_detail_page_overview.html). For more information about the search results page refer to[Search Results Overview](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iom/master/iom_en/topics/getting_started/topic_general_search_options.html#search_results).Tip:The quick search box supports the wildcard characters ? and *.

## Simple Order Search

[User Interface Overview](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iom/master/iom_en/topics/getting_started/topic_user_interface_overview.html), and the Orders section. To use the simple order search:

- In the simple order search widget, specify your search criteria.
The available criteria include:
- Order status groups, which can be pre-selected using the presets Status groups, Technical status, Approval status or Business query
Table 1. Order status filter preset Preset Description Technical status Enables searching for all (technical) statuses that are available in the database Approval status Enables searching for orders of a specific approval status Status groups Enables searching for combinations of technical and approval-specific statuses Business query Enables searching for business-specific statuses: *Not refunded returns*,*Failed payments*and*Unprocessed return requests* - Shops and suppliers which can be selected and combined individually

- Order status groups, which can be pre-selected using the presets Status groups, Technical status, Approval status or Business query
-
Click Find.
This produces the search result and displays the matching orders in the result list. For more information about the search results page refer to
[Search Results Overview](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iom/master/iom_en/topics/getting_started/topic_general_search_options.html#search_results).Tip:Clicking on an order in the list opens the order detail page, seeLeaving the search criteria blank returns all orders as search result.[Order Detail Page Overview](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iom/master/iom_en/topics/managing_orders/topic_order_detail_page_overview.html)for details.

## Advanced Order Search

-
In the simple order search widget, see
[Simple Order Search](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iom/master/iom_en/topics/managing_orders/topic_searching_orders.html#task_order_search_simple), click Advanced order search.This displays the advanced order search. -
Specify your search criteria.
Tip:You can use the wildcard characters ? and * (seeTo include order address details in your search, click Order addresses to expand the corresponding fields.
[General Search Options](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iom/master/iom_en/topics/getting_started/topic_general_search_options.html#ov_ui_search)) for product ID (shop/supplier), order number (shop/IOM), RMA number, first name, last name, company, street/number, ZIP/postal code, city, e-mail. -
Click Find.
This produces the search result and displays the matching orders in the result list. For more information about the search results page refer to
[Search Results Overview](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iom/master/iom_en/topics/getting_started/topic_general_search_options.html#search_results).Tip:Clicking on an order in the list opens the order detail page, seeLeaving the search criteria blank returns all orders as search result.[Order Detail Page Overview](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iom/master/iom_en/topics/managing_orders/topic_order_detail_page_overview.html)for details.

## Result List Options

You can customize the order search result list to further refine your search, modify the result display, or trigger immediate actions.

| Option | Description |
|---|---|
| Allows to select or deselect all orders on this result page or on all result pages. | |
| Allows to select immediate actions for selected orders (create delivery confirmation, confirm return, create cancellation). | |
| Allows to set the number of orders per result page. | |
| Allows to switch the result pages. | |
| Allows to define the result page table columns to be displayed. | |
| Triggers the CSV file download (see
|