---
id: '45ca72883005267e3fcd1d97abe2fa39'
title: 'Managing Automatic Suggestions'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/Z32731'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:47.554100+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/Z32731

# Managing Automatic Suggestions

The autosuggest/autocomplete functionality will produce possible search results based on the entered search phrase in real time. To select attributes for the autosuggest functionality:
-
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Mass Data Tasks | Search Indexes.
This displays a list of all search indexes for the selected management context.

-
Click the name of the search index you intend to edit.
This displays the Search Index detail view for the selected index.

-
Change to the Autosuggest tab.
This tab lists the indexed attributes.

-
Select the checkboxes of the intended attributes in the Autosuggest column and click Apply.
To exclude attributes from the autosuggest functionality, clear the corresponding checkboxes and click Apply.


## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.