---
id: '469c2b189d812fb6416e97674f832a60'
title: 'Wireframes'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/311Y68'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:57.222585+00:00'
---
The wireframes described here contain interaction designs for storefront pages. Elements and functionality of the Intershop Progressive Web App are displayed and explained. Based on this documentation new features can be designed and developed.

The [wireframes](https://knowledge.intershop.com#wireframes) are provided in zip files at the bottom of this document. Each of the zip files contains:

A clickable prototype. Open *HTML/index.html* to see the start page. From there you can navigate directly to other pages via the sitemap.

The editable **.rp* Axure file.

The Axure file was created with Axure RP 9 and cannot be opened in previous versions.

There are features on some pages which are interactive. Use the icon next to the Axure logo and select the option *Show Hotspots*.

The design is responsive in the same way as the starter store is.


The breakpoints are:

Phone (xs): less than 768px

Tablet (sm): 768px and up

Medium Desktop (md): 992px and up

Large Desktop (lg): 1200px and up (only included in the *Checkout* documents; in all other areas the layout is the same as in the *Medium Desktop* view, only the page margin increases).

To see the different layouts, you can resize your browser, or you can use the drop-down menu to switch between the views.

The prototype is described with page notes and widget notes. Use the icon to show the documentation.

See the [Axure documentation](https://docs.axure.com/axure-rp/reference/prototype-player/) for more information on how to interact with the prototype.

The used default widgets (e.g., headings, paragraphs, buttons, etc.) have a predefined set of property styles. If you change one of the properties in the widget style, the change will be applied to all pages using that widget style. You can manage the widget styles by clicking the *Widget Style Manager* icon next to the widget style drop-down menu in the *Style* pane or the style toolbar. More information about styling widgets can be found in the [Axure documentation](https://docs.axure.com/axure-rp/reference/styling-widgets/).

This feature is currently only maintained for the *My Account* file.

Any feedback is appreciated.

Write an e-mail to [UserExperience2@intershop.de](mailto:UserExperience2@intershop.de)

Progressive Web App | ||
|---|---|---|
Shopping Experience | ||
Checkout | ||
My Account | ||
E-Mail Templates |

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.