---
id: '47d27bd62f147bc1a813ae12940caec5'
title: 'Table of Contents'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3095Q9'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:36:42.192336+00:00'
---
This guide lists all migrations required from Intershop Order Management 4.5 to 4.6. The document is aimed at project developers.

This database migration from 4.5 to 4.6 can only be performed when the application is down. It is expected to run under 5 minutes.

With the new endpoint to retrieve the last modified orders, you may need to adapt your custom code for the case when you bypass the registration of order states changes.

However, changes are collected internally on given state modifications of objects appearing in the order states. It is hence likely that code modification is not required. Refer [Cookbook - IOM Order API](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48494608718).

[IOM REST API - Health Service 1.0](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1905711945) deprecates endpoint health/clusterstatus and will be removed timely

Moreover, the application-server status check is now synchronized.

Two cluster properties should be adjusted:

Every 6 hours (the feature is obsolete and will be removed)

Deprecated (since="4.6.0", `forRemoval=true`

), use a large default interval (6 hours) until removal of `/system-property=is.oms.healthcheck.recurringtime: "21600000" `


Deprecated (since="4.6.0", `forRemoval=true`

), `/system-property=is.oms.healthcheck.cachelivetime: "21700000"`


The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.