---
id: '4914ccb86568519e45922821431cb5a8'
title: 'Managing Shopping Cart Preferences'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/327N45'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:40.815652+00:00'
---
# Managing Shopping Cart Preferences

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Applications.
This lists all applications deployed in this sales channel.
-
Click the name or ID of the application intended to edit.
This opens the General tab of the detail view.
- Change to the Shopping Cart & Checkout tab.
-
Edit the settings as necessary.
The tables below list the available fields.
Table 1. Cart settings Parameter Description Expiration Type Determines the time-out behavior of shopping carts. -
Session: A session-based shopping cart expires when the user ends the session. A new shopping cart will be created for every session the user starts.

-
Time: A time-based shopping cart expires after it is left untouched for a defined length of time (see Shopping Cart Lifetime). A user always gets the same shopping cart as in the last session until the shopping cart expires.


Shopping Cart Lifetime Specifies the time (in minutes) during which a time-based shopping cart is kept alive. A shopping cart whose lifetime has not expired is shown as current basket if a registered customer logs on for a new session. Note:This parameter is only available if the expiration type Time is selected.Line Item Positioning Determines the positioning of line items in the shopping cart. - Keep Positions: Line item positions are fixed and reflect the order in which they were added to the basket. They do not change if products are removed from the basket.
-
Adjust Positions: Line item positions move up if a previously added line item is removed from the basket.


Add Product Behavior Determines how the system deals with line items added to a shopping cart multiple times. -
Disallow Repeats: It is not possible to add the same product to the shopping cart twice.

-
Merge Quantities: If a product is added to the shopping cart which the shopping cart already contains, the quantity is recalculated but the line item is listed only once.Note:The product quantities are not merged if any personalization/customization is applied to the products, like gift wraps, gift messages, or warranties.
-
Allow Repeats: It is possible to add the same product to the shopping cart more than once.


Maximum Number of Line Items Determines the maximum number of line items a single shopping cart can keep. Note:This value must be higher than the largest minimum order quantity defined for a single product, see[Standard Product Attributes](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/reference_standard_product_attributes.html).Maximum Quantity for one Line Item Determines the allowed maximum quantity of a single line item. Minimum Item Total (incl. Promotions) Prevents the customer from placing orders with merchandize subtotal values (incl. promotions and warranties) below the defined amount (optional). Maximum Item Total (incl. Promotions) Prevents the customer from placing orders with merchandize subtotal values (incl. promotions and warranties) above the defined amount (optional). Table 2. Cart features Parameter Description Enable Saving as PDF This checkbox specifies whether customers are offered the option to save their current shopping cart as a PDF file. Enable Sending as E-Mail (checkbox) This checkbox specifies whether customers are offered the option to send their current shopping cart as an e-mail to other people. Use Partial Order Number This checkbox specifies whether customers are offered the option to enter a partial order number in the shopping cart. Use Customer Product ID This checkbox specifies whether customers are offered the option to enter a customer product ID in the shopping cart. Table 3. Checkout settings Parameter Description Checkout Acceleration Specifies whether the "accelerated checkout" is enabled. Confirmation of Terms and Conditions Specifies whether the terms and conditions confirmation is required upon checkout. Auto Email Opt-In Specifies whether the marketing mailing opt-in is automatically preselected upon checkout. Table 4. Taxation preferences Parameter Description Display Taxes Determines the tax and fee display during the checkout process. The following options are available: -
No taxes are displayed

-
Consolidated taxes

-
Breakdown taxes

-
Consolidated taxes and consolidated fees

-
Breakdown taxes and breakdown fees

-
Taxes and fees consolidated in a single line


Tax Services Unavailable Determines the system behavior in case the tax service is not available, see [Managing Tax Calculation Services](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/operation_maintenance/topic_managing_tax_calculation_services.html#task_pref_servTax).-
Stop the checkout processing

-
Continue the checkout process


Table 5. Gifting options Parameter Description Packing Slip Messaging Specifies whether the option is enabled to have gifting-related messages printed on the packing slips. Packing Slip Messaging Max. Length Specifies the maximum number of characters for packing slip messages. Gift Wrapping Specifies whether gift wrapping is enabled, i.e., the option to combine accordingly prepared products with specific "gift wrap" products. Gift Messaging Specifies whether gift messaging is enabled, i.e., the option to combine accordingly prepared products with specific "gift message" products. Gift Messaging Max. Length Specifies the maximum number of characters for gift messages. Table 6. Shipping options Parameter Description Message to Merchant Specifies whether the option to send a message to the merchant is enabled. Desired Delivery Date Specifies whether customers are offered the option to select a desired delivery date during checkout. Minimum Delivery Days Specifies the minimum number of days the delivery of the order will take. Maximum Delivery Days Specifies the maximum number of days the delivery of the order will take. Enable Saturday Exclusion Specifies whether Saturdays are excluded from selection as a desired delivery date. Enable Sunday Exclusion Specifies whether Sundays are excluded from selection as a desired delivery date. -
-
Click Apply to save your settings.
Otherwise, leave the page to discard your changes.