---
id: '4928abec2204b5eb3792e1dd0fcf2d57'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/292B71'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:37:50.932173+00:00'
---
The back office of Intershop Order Management (IOM) uses feature toggles to enable or disable features. This document describes the basic concept of feature toggles in the back office.

It is aimed at project developers.

Feature toggles are used to enable or disable a particular feature in the back office.

By default, new features are disabled.

Toggles can be configured in the database table `omt."FeatureToggleDTO"`

. Please see [Reference - IOM Database Documentation](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1826514711/Reference+-+IOM+Database+Documentation) for more details.

When loaded once, the configuration of all active toggles is cached after the application startup.

The following features can be managed by the toggles:

Feature | Description | Since Version |
|---|---|---|
Order Change Requests Tab | A tab on the order details page will be displayed that lists all change requests for the order. | 4.2.0 |
Order Progress Bar | A visualization of the order state on the order details page | 2.16.0.0 |

There are several features that are still managed with other database tables and not with the feature toggle yet.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.