---
id: '4adc457942e0cc8e9d3681a285983db7'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/Z28129'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:40:14.186092+00:00'
---
The 2011 CWE/SANS Top 25 Most Dangerous Software Errors is a list of the most widespread and critical errors that can lead to serious vulnerabilities in software. They are often easy to find, and easy to exploit. They are dangerous because they will frequently allow attackers to completely take over the software, steal data, or prevent the software from working at all.

This guide provides a quick overview about Intershop's approaches to avoid such vulnerabilities.

| Rank | Score | ID | Name | Intershop's solution |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| 1 | 93.8 |
|

To avoid SQL injection vulnerability, only prepared statements with parameter binding are used.

See also [Guide - OWASP Top Ten Project 2013](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1805551825/Guide+-+OWASP+Top+Ten+Project+2013).

[<isprint>](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1775992843/ISML+Tag+-+ISPRINT)

` `

tag or ```
```[stringToHTML()](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1775689715/ISML+Function+-+stringToHtml)

` `

function). Additional encoding handlers can be registered and used for custom encoding requirements.Every critical function is available for authenticated users only.

Intershop uses role and permission based authorization. Permissions are checked automatically for every function in the prefix-pipeline.

Intershop's encryption library uses standard encryption algorithms and implementations. All sensitive data can be encrypted.

Does not happen in the standard product. Ensured by code reviews.

The application servers and web servers use their own users with their own permissions.

Checks in the prefix-pipeline and special pipelets that validate paths.

Intershop never downloads source codes. Downloads of binary software artifacts happens through a secure channel.

Intershop has standard ACL permission checks for every functionality (pipelines). Additionally pipelines have a visibility property, so that internal pipelines cannot be called externally.

3rd party libraries are selected carefully and are regularly checked to security vulnerabilities (e.g., [VersionEye](https://www.versioneye.com/)).

Intershop has standard ACL permission checks for every functionality (pipelines). Roles can be assigned in Intershop Studio.

Intershop's encryption library uses standard encryption algorithms and implementations. Algorithms are configurable.

Intershop has a mechanism that counts failed login attempts and disables the account for a certain period. Additionally captchas are supported.

The prefix-pipeline checks ensure that redirect targets cannot come from parameters.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.