---
id: '4c286106015bf17e229c81291e60abff'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/27687M'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:36:46.044094+00:00'
---
To avoid duplicate content web sites can make use of the canonical link. When pages for different languages/regions come into play there you can use the `href`

lang link in the HTML `<head>`

section to indicate similar content for other languages/regions (e.g., on product detail pages, content pages, catalog pages). These links can be enabled/disabled in the channel specific preferences.

The United States product page under *http://myshop.com/en/products/yellow_sweater* (en-us) may have the same content as the British pendant (en-gb). It is a good practice to use the `<link>`

element with a` hreflang`

attribute set for all languages to avoid duplicate content. So search engines provide language/region specific results and content is not regarded as duplicated.

<head> .. <link rel="alternate" hreflang="en-us" href="http://myshop.com/us/product/yellow_sweater" /> <link rel="alternate" hreflang="en-gb" href="http://myshop.com/uk/product/yellow_sweater" /> <link rel="alternate" hreflang="de-de" href="http://myshop.com/de/produkt/gelber_pullover" /> </head>

Link elements with the `hreflang`

attribute are placed in the `<head>`

section of HTML storefront pages. They are automatically created in all available languages on the following pages: product pages, catalog pages, content pages and the Store Finder page.

Use the [Custom Link Rewriting](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1823681988/Concept+-+URL+Rewriting#Concept-URLRewriting-CustomLinkRewriting) to create links like:

Page | Custom Link |
|---|---|
| Product Detail |
|
| Category Detail |
|
| Content Page |
|
| Any page | ```
pipeline://ViewStorefinder-Start?localeId=en_US&highlight=true
``` |

The appended parameter `localeId`

determines the locale of the created link.

There are four pipelets supporting the href lang link generation:

```
CreateProductHRefLangList
```

```
CreateCategoryHRefLangList
```

```
CreatePageHRefLangList
```

```
CreatePipelineHRefLangList
```

The created custom links can be rendered using the `<islink link="#hreflang:link#>`

module. Currently they are used in `ViewStandardCatalog-Browse/Refresh`

, `ViewProduct-Start`

, `ViewContent-Start `

and in `ViewStoreFinder-Start/Search/Paging`

.

The link element are currently rendered within the *app_sf_responsive_cm/staticfiles/cartridge/templates/default/modules/cms/DefaultPageStructure.isml* in dependence of the channel preference `HRefLangEnabled`

is `true`

or `false`

.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.