---
id: '4d2d1ae5f5bbf478198c63d1ff365067'
title: 'Concept - Intershop Commerce Platform DevOps'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2N9942'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:37:44.939214+00:00'
---
This document describes which aspects of a system are monitored by Intershop and which need to be taken care of by an implementation partner. It also describes the procedure to follow in case of unusual incidents and system failures.

| Term | Description |
|---|---|
| AKS | Azure Kubernetes Service |
| INT | Integration environment |
| non-PRD | Non-production environment (INT and UAT) |
| PRD | Production environment |
| PWA | Intershop Progressive Web App |
| SoW | Statement of work |
| UAT | User acceptance test environment |

The following aspects are monitored:

The availability of production systems is monitored by using a central Nagios-based solution. As an advanced solution, we set up Azure Application Insight for PWA projects, if required.

Progressive Web App projects are hosted in Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) instances. Typically, the standard monitoring tools and capabilities provided by Azure are used.

The customer usually does not have access to the monitoring tools. However, we provide read-access for the AKS cluster and the corresponding customer resources. Thus, the customer can use the K8s standard command line tools (`kubectl`

) to retrieve the status of the deployments.

[Azure Container Insights](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/containers/container-insights-overview) is the Azure solution for monitoring performance and health status of a Kubernetes cluster itself and all workloads deployed into the cluster.

The overview page is the entry point into Container Insights. It shows metrics on resource utilization and provides tabs/links to further aspects.

These views show the health of a single application (i.e., a deployed PWA environment) inside the cluster. The screenshots show the status of deployments of related pods and warning messages from Kubernetes related to the application namespace.

[Azure Application Insights](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/app/app-insights-overview) are used for availability tests of a PWA application. This is an easy option for monitoring availability and response times for a PWA in order to set up alerts.

For further information refer to [Application Insights availability tests](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/app/availability-overview) in the Microsoft documentation.

PRD environments are hosted on other AKS instances than INT and UAT. However, the tooling setup is the same.

The only difference between PRD and non-PRD is the setup of alerts and the process of handling alerts. Specifically, this means:

In case of incidents, the implementation partner must be informed.

The implementation partner then either checks and fixes the problem or escalates to Intershop.

General information on incident management is documented in the customer's SoW, chapter 2.

Currently, Intershop does not offer automatic notifications or alerts for live shop outages. In case of outages, we inform the customer via a service desk ticket.

With the upcoming implementation of a monitoring system, we will provide self-service SLA dashboards for customers.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.