---
id: '4d53a21dd7bd3a3a9afda240e59a544f'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/L47880'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:30:15.681112+00:00'
---
This guide describes the out-of-the-box storefront functionality of the Intershop Progressive Web App (PWA) for B2B customers.

For the Responsive Starter Store, refer to [Guide - B2B Storefront Functionality (valid from 7.10.17)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1902581285/Guide+-+B2B+Storefront+Functionality+valid+from+7.10.17).

The B2B storefront supports the following roles and permissions:

Role | Description | PURCHASE | MANAGE USERS | ORDER APPROVAL | MANAGE OWN QUOTES | MANAGE COST CENTER |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Buyer | can place orders and quotes | |||||
Approver | can approve orders of buyers | |||||
| Cost Center Manager | can manage cost centers of the customer organization | |||||
Account Admin | can manage all aspects of the customer organization |

The My Account overview page provides a dashboard for B2B users. The displayed information depends on the user's assigned role. The following sections may be available:

The navigation section of the My Account area contains the following information:

Quotes are used for price negotiations between the customer and the merchant.

While there are more complicated processes possible, the current implementation is intentionally kept simple.

The current implementation recommends that the user is logged in before doing anything. After logging in, the user can:

The current implementation supports the following administrative tasks:

In the ICM standard implementation **quotes and recurring orders are incompatible**.

Generally, a recurring order is a one-time triggered, but periodically executed purchase of certain products or services. In subscription-based business models, consequently, customers pay periodically to use or receive a defined set of products at a regular base.

The B2X edition of Intershop Commerce Management supports subscription models via recurring orders.

Note

Recurring orders do not work with quotes and vice versa. That is, one cannot create a recurring order from a cart that contains a quote. The other way around, a quote cannot be added to a cart if it is already marked as recurrent.

When a new user registers in the storefront, they are prompted to enter the name of their organization. The system then creates this organization, and the user is assigned the role of *Account Admin*.

As an account admin, this user can add additional users and assign them specific roles in the *User Management* section of the *My Account* area.

The B2B storefront contains a management section for users of a customer organization, where administrators of the organization can create and manage users.

Administrators can create new users of an organization from the user list. New users will receive an e-mail in order to provide a password and login.

In addition to creating and deleting users, you can manage the roles assigned to an individual user.

Furthermore, you can set budget limits for individual users.

The roles assigned to a user define what a user is allowed to do in the storefront. The buyer role is always assigned to a user. Additional roles can be assigned to perform specific tasks, such as approving orders or managing cost centers.

User budgets and order spend limits can be defined separately for each user. If defined, these values are used to decide whether an order requires approval or not. An approval is necessary if one or both values are exceeded. If no values are defined, orders can be placed without approval. For more information, see [Order Approval](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Guide-PWAB2BStorefrontFunctionality-OrderApproval).

There are jobs which are created with the purpose to reset the user budgets at the end/start of each period. The following budget types are available: *yearly*, *half-yearly*, *quarterly*, *monthly,* and *weekly*.

The names of the corresponding job configurations are: *ResetYearlyBudgetsSpentJob*,*ResetHalfYearlyBudgetsSpentJob*,*ResetQuarterlyBudgetsSpentJob*, *ResetMonthlyBudgetsSpentJob,* and *ResetWeeklyBudgetsSpentJob*. They can be found in the Intershop System Management's *Schedules | Scheduling* menu item under *root* domain:

By default these jobs are disabled. This can remain as it is if user budgets are not used. If user budgets are used, these jobs need to be configured once. To do this, click on the desired one to enter the job configuration details page:

On the job configuration details page:

This way, resetting of user budgets will be performed automatically at the desired time. It is not necessary to configure all three jobs if, for example, only one type of budget period is used. For example, if weekly is the only type available, then *ResetYearlyBudgetsSpentJob*,*ResetHalfYearlyBudgetsSpentJob*,*ResetQuarterlyBudgetsSpentJob,* and *ResetMonthlyBudgetsSpentJob* can remain disabled.

In the *Edit User Profile* dialog it is possible to activate and deactivate a user. Deactivated users are not able to log in.

Administrators can delete users, e.g., in case they left the company. This can be done from the user list by clicking on the *delete *icon.

Note

Interference between recurring orders and user assignment:

Orders created from a recurring order belong to the user who created the corresponding recurring order. If a user is deleted, that user's recurring orders are also deleted.

Cost centers allow customer organizations to track purchases according to their internal cost accounting and ensure purchases align with defined budgets.

Customer organization administrators can create, edit, and delete cost centers. They can also assign a cost center owner and buyers to each cost center.

Cost centers can be activated and deactivated to adapt to changes in a customer organization's accounting.

Cost centers can be managed in the *Cost Centers *section of *My Account*. Administrators and Cost Center Managers can create, edit, activate/deactivate, and delete cost centers here and get an overview of the amount of orders and spent budget per cost center.

Cost center managers and administrators can create new cost centers from the *Cost Center* list. A cost center must have a unique ID within the customer organization, a name, and cost center manager defined that approves or rejects all orders placed for this cost center.

Note

Only users with the role *Cost Center Manager *assigned can be set as a cost center manager for a specific cost center. In addition, a budget can be defined for cost centers.

*Administrators* or *Cost Center Managers *can delete cost centers that are no longer needed by clicking on the *delete* icon in the *Cost Centers* list.

Cost centers that are not needed now but should be saved for later use or to see all orders placed for this cost center later on, can be deactivated and reactivated again by clicking on the on the *deactivate/reactivate* icon in the *Cost Centers* list.

Adding buyers to a cost center can be done in the *Add Buyers* dialog. To open the dialog, click *Add* in the buyers section of the cost center details page.

Editing a buyer's budget is achieved by the *Edit Budget* dialog. To open the dialog, click the *Edit* button next to each buyer in the cost center details page.

Buyers can select a cost center for their order in the shopping cart.

If a buyer has cost centers assigned, the selection of a cost center for an order is mandatory. Otherwise, an order could be placed without providing a cost center.

Note

Deactivated cost centers cannot be selected in the shopping cart.

Note

Interference between recurring orders and cost center assignment:

Orders created from a recurring order belong to the cost center to which they were initially assigned. A recurring order can create future orders even if the initial cost center is deactivated or deleted.

Therefore, cancel all recurring orders for a cost center before deactivating or deleting it.

Budgets can be defined for the cost center itself and specifically for each buyer of the cost center. Budget periods can be set to *yearly*, *half-yearly*, *quarterly*, *monthly*, *weekly,* or *fixed*. Recurring budgets are automatically reset at the end of the defined period.

Generally, a recurring order is a one-time triggered, but periodically executed purchase of certain products or services. In subscription-based business models, consequently, customers pay periodically to use or receive a defined set of products at a regular base.

Note

Once the recurring order is approved, all subsequent orders created by this recurring order do not require any additional approval. While such a order created by recurring order reduces the budget, the recurring order itself will not be checked against the budget. That is, the recurring order will be placed even if it exceeds the budget.

When an order is assigned to a cost center the approval from the cost center owner is required, regardless of the cost center budget or the user-specific cost center budget. The cost center owner receives information about already spent total cost center and user-specific cost center budgets in context of the order approval. Based on this, the order can be approved or rejected. The reason for a rejection can be captured by a comment.

Note

*Cost Center Managers* can approve their own orders.

The order templates feature allows the customer to collect products in a special product list to order them later or more than once. Adding products to an order template always requires selecting an order template by name or creating a new one. Order templates can be managed (create, update delete) in the *My Account* section. They can be added to the cart completely. And the cart can be saved into an order template.

B2B customer organizations can use order approval to check orders before they are placed. The approval contains two checks, one for [cost center specific approval](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Guide-PWAB2BStorefrontFunctionality-CostCenterApproval) and one to check orders against a user's budget and order spend limit. Using the order approval is optional. If no budgets and spend limits are defined for users and no cost centers are defined for a user, orders are placed without approval.

Whenever an order requires approval due to exceeding the user's spend limit or budget, an e-mail is sent to all users with either the *Approver* role or the *Administrator* role. These users also see all orders requiring approval in their *Dashboard* and *Approvals* section of *My Account*. Approvers can either approve or reject an order. If an order is approved, it is placed automatically. If an approver rejects an order, a reason for the rejection can be provided.

Users can see a list of pending, approved, and rejected orders in the *My Account* section.

Generally, a recurring order is a one-time triggered, but periodically executed purchase of certain products or services. In subscription-based business models, consequently, customers pay periodically to use or receive a defined set of products at a regular base.

The B2X edition of Intershop Commerce Management supports subscription models via recurring orders.

Recurring orders have different approval rules compared to one-time purchases.

Note

A recurring order, which was once approved through all instances, never needs an additional approval, even if the recurring order was deactivated and reactivated later on.

It is possible to add multiple products to the cart or a quote request at once by entering product ID and quantity via the *Quick Order* functionality.

By default, the user can add five products. Clicking *Add 5 more rows* extends the form by five additional lines, each with input fields for product ID and quantity.

Using the CSV import, you can import a customizable number of products in one step, just by providing a CSV file (encoding UTF-8). Find a sample CSV import file in the following zip file: [quickorder.zip](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Deliver/DOC/L47880/quickorder.zip)

The quick order functionality was also implemented at the cart page with the restriction of only one product at the time.

The order search in the *Order History* of *My Account* enables you to search by order number, product ID, buyer name, and/or a specific time frame.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.