---
id: '4d5e64bef69dc7a8e6d0e870d4e4bfe3'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2Y8369'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:37:00.636953+00:00'
---
This concept gives an overview of IOM server health checks and how they can be used within an HA installation of IOM. The document is mainly addressed to application administration.

|
|
|---|---|
API | Application Programming Interface |
HA | High Availability |
IOM | The abbreviation for |
REST | Representational State Transfer |

An application server is one single application server within a cluster of multiple application servers.

The health status of one application server reflects whether the server is able to adequately fulfill its tasks.

For Intershop Order Management, the status can be requested using the REST API.

The IOM health check is limited to a database connection check.

The main purpose of health status support is to enable server monitoring applications to manage the application cluster, i. e., not to host unhealthy/broken servers and/or to trigger the repair/restart of unhealthy/broken servers.

Especially in the case of HA health checks are required to always ensure a running application.

The cluster status endpoint in the REST API is deprecated in IOM 4.6 and should be removed in IOM 4.7.

There is no requirement for a cluster status overview in Kubernetes context.

The cluster status reflects the general health status of each application server of a server cluster. Basically, it can be used to give a quick overview of the healthiness of the server cluster.

The cluster status can be requested using REST API which returns the persisted results from the last health status check of each application server.

The REST response for the application server health status will return a status code that reflects the health status and can be used by the server monitoring application.

To offer the health check for an IOM application server, the artifact `oms.monitoring`

must be deployed.

The following list describes the current checks that are done by a health check.

|
|
|
|---|---|---|
Database | A connection to the database will always be established. | Always performed |

Also, see [Guide - Operate Intershop Order Management 3.X](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1911932456/Guide+-+Operate+Intershop+Order+Management+3.X) or later, see [Overview - IOM Setup](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1828423562/Overview+-+IOM+Setup), for cluster properties.

Since IOM 4.6, the application server status check is synchronous and not cached anymore. It is triggered by the REST request itself.

Before IOM 4.6, each performed check was cached, and subsequent requests served from that cache as long as the `lastCheck`

time was not older than the value configured with `is.oms.healthcheck.cachelivetime.`


Health checks were performed by a Java timer and not triggered by the REST requests. The result will be cached for responding to REST calls.

With this improvement, the signification of the property `is.oms.healthcheck.cachelivetime`

has changed and `is.oms.healthcheck.recurringtime`

has been added.

Also, see [Guide - Operate Intershop Order Management 3.X](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1911932456/Guide+-+Operate+Intershop+Order+Management+3.X) or later, see [Overview - IOM Setup](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1828423562/Overview+-+IOM+Setup), for cluster properties.

The health check can be extended within `HealthServiceBean.java`

of artifact `oms.monitoring`

by adding a new check.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.