---
id: '4e85f6965aa26aea025adaedf748470d'
title: 'Assigning Content to Campaigns'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3256P0'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:29.575669+00:00'
---
# Assigning Content to Campaigns

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Marketing | Campaigns.
This opens the campaigns manager displaying a list of all campaigns for the current channel.
-
Click the name of the campaign you wish to edit.
The campaign details view is displayed.
-
Select the Content tab.
This tab shows the assigned promotions and content objects. You have two options for assigning campaign content:
- Assigning existing content explicitly, therefore:
- Click Assign in the Components/Page Variants section.
This displays a list of components or, respectively, page variants that can be assigned to the campaign.

- Select one or more objects, then click Finish.
The selected objects are assigned to the campaign.


- Click Assign in the Components/Page Variants section.
- Creating new content and assigning it implicitly, therefore:
- Click New in the Components/Page Variants section.
This displays an empty component/page variant detail view.

- Edit all data as required, and click Apply to save your settings.

- Click New in the Components/Page Variants section.

For details, see[Creating Components](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/content_management/task_creating_components.html)or[Creating Page Variants](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/content_management/task_creating_page_variants.html). Clicking Back to List returns you to the Content tab of the campaign detail view. - Assigning existing content explicitly, therefore: