---
id: '4f827f5b5b59f7a25ec4fc451658b47e'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2Q3663'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:57.516459+00:00'
---
This document describes the creation of product-to-product and category-to-product links via the product link assignment bulk operation. The bulk operation allows the shop manager to link multiple target products or categories to multiple source products.

This diagram shows how the product links bulk assignment operation can be triggered from the back office.

When the wizard is finished, a new batch job is created internally and the new links are created as part of that job.

Linking products to multiple source products is very similar to creating links for a single source product. The main difference is that the selected target products can contain products that are also selected as source products and already linked products:

If one of the special link types (Warranty, Gift Wrap or Gift Message) is selected, only the products that are assigned to the corresponding service types classification categories are available for selection.

As with product to product links, all categories can be selected as target categories:

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.