---
id: '50cec5918e034b49535ea531c2a4dec2'
title: 'Reference'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/30639C'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:37:50.533047+00:00'
---
The reference lists the status models of orders of the IOM. The reference is addressed to users of the OMT and users of the REST interface for orders. See [Overview - Intershop Order Management REST API](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1910440913/Overview+-+Intershop+Order+Management+REST+API).

Term | Description |
|---|---|
IOM | The abbreviation for |
OMT | The abbreviation for |
REST | Representational State Transfer |

| Title | Description | Product Version | Product To Version |
|---|---|---|---|
|

Statuses of an approval response.

4.0

Statuses of a dispatch.

4.0

A message to be used for dispatches, e.g., a delivery that was made

4.0

Statuses of a document.

4.0

A message to be used for document processing/creation

4.0

A message to be used for invoice processing

4.0

Statuses of an invoicing.

4.0

A message to be used for e-mails, e.g., to send a delivery e-mail to the customer

4.0

Statuses of a cancelation.

4.0

Statuses of an order position.

4.0

Statuses of an order.

4.0

Statuses of a supplier evaluation object.

4.0

A message to be used for order processing, e.g., to announce an order entry

4.0

Statuses of a payment notification.

4.0

A message to be used for payment notifications, e.g., to note a received payment

4.0

Statuses of a process control object.

4.0

Statuses of a response.

4.0

A message to be used for responses of a supplier, e.g., to respond to a delivery request

4.0

Statuses of a return announcement.

4.0

A message to be used for return announcements

4.0

Statuses of a return.

4.0

A message to be used for returns, e.g., a received return

4.0

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.