---
id: '51152b4e3c6c3c8cb2e6876f0b3f9f34'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2623X6'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:50.343456+00:00'
---
This document gives a short guideline for localization-aware Intershop 7 programming. It introduces the current (still limited) standard localization approach and points out what code artifacts are, consequently, subject to localization.

Why bother at all?

Language-specific elements are externalized from the code and kept, managed and localized individually. To this end, Intershop 7 has introduced the localization framework, which allows to separate the language-specific elements from implementation artifacts (currently, Java and ISML).

Find more information about the framework and some corresponding how-tos in * Concept - Localization * and

In order to retrieve the texts to be localized, the current approach involves a file system search for externalized ISML strings and pagelet properties.

Static, localizable text within the ISML code is to be externalized using a specific tool in Intershop Studio'sISML editor. For details, refer to[Guide - 7.4.6 Externalize Texts from ISML Templates](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1795327487/Guide+-+7.4.6+Externalize+Texts+from+ISML+Templates).

The current localization approaches already tell which code artifacts are currently localized: **ISML templates** and **pagelet properties**. That is: If you want to be sure that your (potentially localizable) texts are subject to the standard product localization, they must be either

All other code artifacts that may contain localizable texts are not currently localized.

Currently, there is no clear definition of "demo data". Actually, the current localization approach only applies to code, that is, text strings that are part of a back office application or a storefront application. There are, however, strings that customers/partners seem to consider some sort of "standard data", which is not removed or replaced in their installations but used (e.g., shipping data like regions, role names/descriptions, and other).

As this data is located in sub-directories other than *localizations* or even in the *ucm_demo* cartridge, it is not localized. Whether this is correct or not is to be discussed with PM/RE.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.