---
id: '511b12823fd5c4ffcb50615deaa378ae'
title: 'Concept - CMS'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/272U59'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:29:37.340632+00:00'
---
On this page, you can find an overview with links to all sub-concepts of the CMS concept. A much more detailed [introduction](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1774074774/Concept+-+CMS+-+Introduction) gives an idea of the CMS structure and basic concepts.

Commerce Management application (Back Office) | Intershop Studio | Meta Model Class | Model Element (in *.pagelet2 files) | Comments |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Content Object Relation | c.i.c.pmc.capi.definition.pagelet.ContextObjectRelation | contextObjectRelations | |
Page Type | Page Entry Point | c.i.c.pmc.capi.definition.pagelet.PageEntryPointDefinition | pageEntryPointDefinitions | |
Include Type | Component Entry Point | c.i.c.pmc.capi.definition.pagelet.ComponentEntryPointDefinition | componentEntryPointDefinitions | |
Page Variant Type | Pagelet (pagelets with their page flag set to true) | c.i.c.pmc.capi.definition.pagelet.PageletDefinition | pagelets | |
Component Type | Pagelet (pagelet with their page flag set to false) | c.i.c.pmc.capi.definition.pagelet.PageletDefinition | pagelets | |
Slot Type | Slot | c.i.c.pmc.capi.definition.pagelet.SlotDefinition | slots | |
Page Template Type | Pagelet (pagelets with their page flag set to true) | c.i.c.pmc.capi.definition.pagelet.PageletDefinition | pagelet | There is no distinction between page and component templates at the content model layer; it is determined at PO layer by a flag 'template' at PageletPO |
Component Template Type | Pagelet (pagelet with their page flag set to false) | c.i.c.pmc.capi.definition.pagelet.PageletDefinition | pagelets | |
Configuration Parameter | Configuration Parameter | c.i.c.pmc.capi.definition.pagelet.ConfigurationParameterDefinition | configurationParameterDefinitions | |
There is no equivalent in the back office; configuration parameters are implicitly visible by configuration parameters derived from them. | Configuration Parameter Type | c.i.c.pmc.capi.definition.pagelet.ConfigurationParameterType | configurationParameterTypes | |
Call Parameter Interfaces |

For questions and typical problems related to the CMS concept please refer to the [Cookbook - CMS](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1922252787/Cookbook+-+CMS).

A configuration parameter represents a leaf in the content composition tree. For more details refer to the sub-concept [Configuration Parameters](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1773247445/Concept+-+CMS+-+Configuration+Parameters).

A lot of content instances cannot be executed independently. The content model that the instance is based on determines the parameters this parameter set contains. It does so by providing further elements called *Call Parameter Definitions*. The sub-concept of call parameters is described here: [Concept - CMS - Call Parameters](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1774074788/Concept+-+CMS+-+Call+Parameters).

The structure and properties of pagelets, i.e., page variations and components, are described here: [Concept - CMS - Pagelets](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1774074813/Concept+-+CMS+-+Pagelets).

Content entry points are described in the sub-concept [Concept - CMS - Content Entry Points](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1812634499/Concept+-+CMS+-+Content+Entry+Points).

To achieve the composition of pagelets a data structure must be present to connect a content entry point (on one side) with a pagelet (on the other side).

View contexts are meant to associate arbitrary business objects with content in the form of pages or includes to supply them with individual visual representations in the storefront. For more information see here: [Concept - CMS - View Context](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1812634494/Concept+-+CMS+-+View+Context).

The main idea behind content templating is to have a means to define new content by re-using already existing content. In this way, the content manager does not have to deal with complex content structures. For more information see: [Concept - CMS - Content Templating](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1766066874/Concept+-+CMS+-+Content+Templating).

The basic idea behind completeness checks of CMS objects is to deliver a control tool to measure possible pain points. For more information see [Concept - CMS - Completeness Checks](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1774824081/Concept+-+CMS+-+Completeness+Checks).

This concept provides an overview of content sharing as it has evolved with the introduction of application awareness of the CMS framework. *Business users* gain an understanding about the general content sharing principles whereas *developers* additionally get an overview of how content sharing is applied technically and how they can detect and handle content sharing using an API for it.

For more information see [ Concept - CMS - Content Sharing](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1777336982/Concept+-+CMS+-+Content+Sharing).

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.