---
id: '516ad9671702e190c4179bdd62cbdba5'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/25C051'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:37:38.158101+00:00'
---
Sometimes customers make mistakes when entering their addresses. This may happen in the "My Account" section, in the checkout process or during registration. Such mistakes may later increase delivery costs and create various other problems. The address check framework provides a convenient way to connect to an external address validation service (like * AddressDoctor *) which sends back hints about address errors. The hints may look like this in the UI:

The API of the framework defines a standard interface used to integrate custom validation mechanisms into IS7.

A reference implementation based on the * Concept - Managed Service Framework * is shipped with IS7. This implementation is just dummy but may be used as a starting point to implement a real integration. The recommended way to implement a custom address check is to wrap it as a managed service. This is not necessarily a must though.

Please note that wrapping certain implementations as managed services is the subject of another concept and cookbook pair. Minimal knowledge of the managed services framework is certainly required (see References below).

In the standard product, the address validation is shipped within several different artifacts:

An implementer of a custom address validation needs to:

The reference app uses the results from the `ValidateAddressBO`

pipelet to show address suggestions. If a new validation service is plugged, no other changes that require implementation efforts will be necessary. The next sections introduce the configuration interface in the back office as well as the sample UI in the reference application.

Customer and order managers may configure several application-specific options in the back office. These options are located in the General tab of the application and define in which areas of the application the address check is activated. Please have a look at the next screenshot.

The options are hard coded; adding new ones requires additional programming efforts.

If the address validation is wrapped as a managed service, it should appear in the UI dedicated to the managed services as shown on the next image.

The name of the reference address check service is "Address Check Show Case".

If the address validation is enabled on the registration page, the customers may see a hint about address errors when they fill in all details. The customer may then correct the address, choose a suggestion, or continue on the registration page without changing what was previously entered. The second step of the registration is shown in the screenshot below.

In the My Account section, the user get hints while adding new addresses or editing existing addresses. The UI is shown below.

In the checkout process, the user gets hints while adding new addresses, e.g., in the anonymous checkout. The UI is shown below.

The demo service is a useless dummy and is used only in demo scenarios. A simple way to trigger it and get back suggestions is to enter "street1" as the street in an address form.

This section briefly outlines the artifacts that are involved in the implementation of the address validation.

The address check framework is defined in the cartridge *bc_addresscheck*. The cartridge contains the basic interface that describes an address validator:

public interface AddressValidator { public AddressValidationResponse validateAddress(AddressValidationRequest addressValidationRequest); }

Roughly speaking, the implementation receives a request that contains an `AddressBO`

. The expected response contains the result of the validation and perhaps a list with address suggestions in case the validation fails.

The `ValidateAddressBO`

is the only pipelet that should be used ( `ValidateAddress`

is deprecated now). It invokes the `AddressValidator`

registered in the system and returns the result in the pipeline layer. The `ValidateAddressBO`

is essentially a wrapper of `AddressValidator`

in the pipeline layer.

*bc_addresscheck* includes few artifacts that may be reused in custom projects. This is utility processing logic that is meant to encapsulate the operations that are most likely to be needed in custom implementations. An example is the `ProcessAddressValidation-ValidateAddressBO`

pipeline. It may ease the check of the response of the `ValidateAddressBO`

pipelet. E.g., the developer may easily navigate to the suggestions page just by using the corresponding output connector instead of performing numerous redundant checks at many places in the pipeline layer. The pipeline is shown in the next image.

An important utility is the temporary address storage interface:

public interface CustomerBOTempAddressStorageExtension extends BusinessObjectExtension<CustomerBO>, AddressBORepository { public static final String EXTENSION_ID = "CustomerBOTempAddressStorageExtension"; }

This is an extension of `CustomerBO`

and it is an address repository. As an address repository, it is capable to perform any operations that are required for address repositories. The default implementation keeps the addresses in the user session. The idea is to transfer the address suggestions across multiple steps in the UI. E.g. in step 1, the users may be required to enter their addresses. In step 2, the address suggestions are shown but they should be kept in memory in case the user would like to apply one of the suggestions. Since the extension is just an address repository, all artifacts in *bc_address* that manipulate addresses may be used to perform all CRUD operations with the repository.

The `ValidateAddressBO`

pipelet only takes an `AddressBO`

as input. `ServiceBORepository`

or `ApplicationBO`

are no longer required. In previous versions, the developers were obliged to wrap their implementations in managed services. Now, *bc_addresscheck* defines an extension of `AddressBO`

which is used as a simple lookup for registered address validators.

public interface AddressBOAddressValidatorExtension extends BusinessObjectExtension<AddressBO>, AddressValidator { public static final String EXTENSION_ID = "AddressBOAddressValidatorExtension"; }

The default implementation in *sld_b2c_ch_base* searches for a managed service that adapts the `AddressValidator`

. Developers are not obliged to use it. They may simply provide their own extension that does not depend on the managed services.

The cartridge *ac_addresscheck_demo*(previously known as ac_addresscheck_std) is a sample implementation of a dummy address validation service. Developers may refer to it when providing their own implementation. It is referred to in the * Cookbook - Address Check Framework *, too. The sample implementation is wrapped as a managed service.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.