---
id: '517b3d821ab23cb551a52059db5d5144'
title: 'Public Release Note'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/478A84'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:29:52.954330+00:00'
---
Welcome to the Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) SPARQUE Extension. The extension allows to set up and configure ICM data export and transfer to SPARQUE. The data (product, catalog) is required to build the SPARQUE search index and provide search functionality. Order data is necessary to create recommendations and to personalize the search results.

This document provides important product information, including version information and dependencies. It also outlines the basic setup steps.

It uses ICM Demo Data extensions to show how to build the necessary export. You need to adapt it in the project as required.

Intershop Commerce Management | ICM Headless Extension | ICM Demo Data |
|---|---|---|
14.0+ | 4.+ | 4.+ |

Also see [Reference - ICM 14 Release Versions](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/49408278649/Reference+-+ICM+14+Release+Versions) for versions that are released and tested together.

The following table lists the cartridges contained in the ICM Headless Extension:

Cartridge | Description |
|---|---|
sparque_dbinit | DBPrepare - contains all jobs, transport framework, and process chains definitions |
sparque_impex | Import/Export - contains pipelets and pipelines that are used in jobs |

Follow the basic setup of ICM 14 customization described in [Concept - Customization - Deployment - ICM 11+](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48443982957/Concept+-+Customization+-+Deployment+-+ICM+11) to add the cartridges of the extension to ICM and to the cartridge list.

Add the *ft_sparque *feature to the cartridge list:

environment: CARTRIDGE_LIST: ft_sparque, ft_demo

Add the ICM Headless Extension to the customizations section of the Helm chart:

... customizations: headless: repository: intershophub/icm-as-customization-sparque:1.1.2 ....

Support creation of order export to build a recommendation engine

Support creation of product and catalog export

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.