---
id: '52a5f88102714061021dfb3257324dd9'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/254F11'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:37:09.520301+00:00'
---
This guide applies to Solr 4 only!

For Solr 8 deployments please refer to the Apache guide: [https://solr.apache.org/guide/8_11/configuring-logging.html](https://solr.apache.org/guide/8_11/configuring-logging.html) or the [Guide - Deployment Solr Cloud Server](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1827480091/Guide+-+Deployment+Solr+Cloud+Server) respectively.

This describes samples for configuring logging in the different possible Solr 4 deployments for development.

Production setups may need additional considerations.

Installed a plain tomcat and added the deployed the solr webapp on it.

There is a configuration file that configures the overall tomcat logging.

Add

to handlers. define the [5solr.org](http://5solr.org).apache.juli.FileHandler* 5solr.org.apache.juli.FileHandler.* log properties* add level and handler to log:

handlers = 1catalina.org.apache.juli.FileHandler, 2localhost.org.apache.juli.FileHandler, \ 3manager.org.apache.juli.FileHandler, 4host-manager.org.apache.juli.FileHandler, \ java.util.logging.ConsoleHandler, 5solr.org.apache.juli.FileHandler 5solr.org.apache.juli.FileHandler.level = FINE 5solr.org.apache.juli.FileHandler.directory = ${catalina.base}/logs 5solr.org.apache.juli.FileHandler.prefix = solr. org.apache.solr.level = INFO org.apache.solr.handlers=5solr.org.apache.juli.FileHandler

Apache Tomcat Logging: [http://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-6.0-doc/logging.html#Java_logging_API_%E2%80%94_java.util.logging](http://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-6.0-doc/logging.html#Java_logging_API_%E2%80%94_java.util.logging)

Place a *logging.properties* into WEB-INF/classes:

handlers = org.apache.juli.FileHandler, java.util.logging.ConsoleHandler org.apache.juli.FileHandler.level = FINE org.apache.juli.FileHandler.directory = ${catalina.base}/logs org.apache.juli.FileHandler.prefix = solr. java.util.logging.ConsoleHandler.level = FINE java.util.logging.ConsoleHandler.formatter = java.util.logging.SimpleFormatter

E.g., when adding a context file to:

\engine\tomcat\servers\appserver0\conf\Catalina\localhost

or

copying the solr.war to:

\engine\tomcat\servers\appserver0\webapps

Note

Only recommended for development.

The Intershop logging framework provides an adapter to catch all javalogging (specified in *share/system/config/cluster/logging.properties* with the `intershop.logging.javaloggingadapter.enable`

)

By default the INFO level is logged nowhere. To enable INFO logging for the solr log messages, e.g., to log it into console add org.apache.solr to TraceConsole appender via SMC or add:

intershop.logging.appender.TraceConsole.categories=org.apache.solr

To *share/system/config/cluster/logging.properties*

To create a log file for the solr log messages:

Copy the [logback-solr.xml](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Deliver/DOC/254F11/logback-solr.xml) to *share/systemconfig/cluster*/loggingextension and add the line:

intershop.logging.additionalfiles.cluster=logback-solr.xml

To *share/system/config/cluster/logging.properties*

This creates a log file in *\share\system\log\solr-127.0.0.1-ES1-appserver0.log* with all log messages that origin from org.apache.solr.

See also: [Concept - Logging (valid to 7.3)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1766524885)

When using the startup from the solr distribution (It is a jetty servlet container delivered in the solr distribution).

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.