---
id: '53c41fe479fd175eb985f69d9f161323'
title: 'Managing Scaled Prices'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/322E88'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:35.556003+00:00'
---
# Managing Scaled Prices

Note:

Before managing prices, make sure the appropriate pricing settings have been set, see

[Managing Pricing Settings](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/operation_maintenance/topic_managing_pricing_and_shopping_cart_calculation_settings.html#task_pref_gen_pricing). In addition, make sure that at least one price list has been defined, see[Creating Price Lists](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/task_creating_price_lists.html).For each product, you can provide a scaled price definition for each available price list.

Note:

The tasks described in this section are performed in the context of a sales channel.

To define a scaled price:

-
Locate the product for which you want to manage scaled prices.
For details, see
[Locating Products](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/task_locating_products.html). -
Click the name of the product.
The General tab of the Standard Product dialog is displayed.
-
Select the Pricing tab.
A list of list prices and cost prices which have already been defined is displayed.
-
In the Special Prices row, click New.
This opens the wizard to create scaled prices.
- Select the price list in which the scaled price should be defined, then click Next.
- Select the currency for the scaled price, then click Next.
-
Specify valid-from and valid-to dates if required.
If no valid-from and valid-to dates are provided, the validity of the scaled price depends on the valid-from and valid-to dates defined for the price list.
-
Provide a quantity and a fixed price (e.g., 19.99) or a discount (e.g., 10%) and click Add.
Repeat this step as necessary.
-
Click Finish.
Note:When setting scaled prices, Intershop 7 allows to configure multiple scaled prices for the same quantity of a product in the same price list. Be aware that such prices must not overlap in a time period, otherwise, the price look-up will not work properly.