---
id: '53d659243a3debe5a5ce4d6c1545c07a'
title: 'Announcement'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/X29840'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:39:59.189049+00:00'
---
We will discontinue support for Solr 4 as a search solution in Intershop Commerce Management by the end of 2021.

Since 2015, Solr 4 has been included as a search solution in Intershop Commerce Management. We have added SolrCloud support in 2017 and changed the internal standard from Solr 4 to SolrCloud 8 with ICM 7.10.16.6.

Due to security issues within this solution and discontinued support from Apache, we have decided to only support the current version SolrCloud 8. This includes not only many new features and bug fixes, but also a completely different setup.

If you are using SolrCloud 6, please read this document as well.

We have chosen this path for the following reasons:

Following the discontinued support for Solr 4, Intershop will also discontinue the maintenance of the Solr 4 Adapter. This means:

In this case Solr already runs in cloud mode. The greatest efforts have already been made.

Nevertheless, as mentioned above, Apache has already ended support for SolrCloud 7. The corresponding ICM adapter (SolrCloud Search Service Adapter 1) already reached its end of life and will be supported until July 2022.

For this case we also recommend a migration to SolrCloud 8.

If you are still using Solr 4 in your ICM project, we recommend planning a migration to SolrCloud 8. This requires:

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.