---
id: '54185a85422f2bf9cdecda74d34e8280'
title: 'Setting Page Variant Publishing Properties'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/D32434'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:03.727370+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/D32434

# Setting Page Variant Publishing Properties

Publishing refers to the general availability of the page variant. Only published page variants can be visible, i.e., be actually online. To set the publishing period for a page variant:
-
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Page Variants.
This opens the Page Variants list view.

-
Click the publishing date of the page variant you intend to edit.
This opens the Properties tab of the detail view.

-
Set the publishing status and period as required.
Select the radio button of the intended status, and specify the

Published from and

Published until dates and times.

Note: Leaving the end date and time blank sets the publishing period to "unlimited".

-
Click Apply.
The publishing status and period are set immediately.


## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.