---
id: '545be560c7698fb26a017e998e57a435'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2577B7'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:39:53.390022+00:00'
---
The ICI is capable of sending reports as HTML e-mail. You can send e-mails recurring using a schedule or directly. This article will guide you through the steps to set up a IC Mail, including the setup of schedules and the configuration of dashboards or reports to be sent out.

Recurred sending of ICI Mails

Setting up a ICI Mail involves two aspects: The schedule that sends out the e-mail and the dashboard or report that is being sent out as e-mail content. There are four basic rules concerning the ICI Mail delivery:

Example for the architecture of the system:

To set up a new ICI Mail you want to send recurring please follow the configuration steps below.

Specify one or more e-mail addresses the report shall be send to. To create an e-mail address go to “Mail System \ Addresses” in “My Account”.

Create a new address. The ICI will send an e-mail containing a verification code.

To verify and activate the address, enter the verification code.


Create a schedule to define the times the ICI Mail should be send.

Go to “Mail System \ Schedules” in “My Account” where you defined the address before.

Create a new schedule:


Go to the report or dashboard you want to send in “Reports”.

Configure it as desired:

Select the “configure mail” - icon.

The first dialog lists all ICI Mails that are already defined for the current report or dashboard. By selecting the corresponding button you can configure, copy or delete this ICI Mails.

To create a new ICI Mail select the plus button as you did before to create an address and a schedule.

Configure the ICI Mail:

There are several options to monitor and administer your ICI Mails in "My Account".

Besides the option to deactivate single schedules you can deactivate your mail system. No ICI Mails will be send from your account during the time your mail system is deactivated.

Administer your ICI Mail Schedules in “My Account”. Go to the menu "Mail System \ Schedules". The following actions are possible:

To administer your ICI Mails in “My Account”, go to the menu "Mail System \ Schedules". Here you see a list of all configured mails.

You can copy or delete ICI Mails here or jump to the corresponding report or dashboard for further changes.

If you want to send a ICI Mail directly in “Reports” you can do that without configuring a schedule.

For this purpose follow the configuration steps [1833534690](https://knowledge.intershop.com#) and [ ](http://www.google.de)[1833534690](https://knowledge.intershop.com#): Configure a mail address in “My Account”, go to “Reports” and prepare the report or dashboard you want to send.

Select the “Send mail directly” - icon.

Insert a subject and select the addresses you want to send the ICI mail to.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.