---
id: '54f16f0ce6087b5f7d127492a8abe4ac'
title: 'Assigning Products by Category'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/Y32217'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:50.012687+00:00'
---
# Assigning Products by Category

Using this option, you can add all products that belong to a catalog or sub-category to the current configuration. If you feed from a catalog or sub-category, this automatically adds all products from all sub-categories.

To browse catalogs for products to add to the product data feed configuration:

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Catalogs | Product Data Feeds from the navigation bar.
A list of all configurations currently defined is displayed.
- Click the name of the configuration to which to assign products.
-
Change to the Products tab.
A list of all products currently assigned to the configuration is displayed.
-
Click Assign by Category.
A list of catalogs available in the channel repository is displayed.
-
Assign the products as required.
-
To assign all products of a catalog to the current configuration, click Assign All in the respective catalog row.

-
To browse specific catalog categories, select the radio button for the catalog and click Next. Click a category name to view sub-categories until you have found the category from which to feed products. Alternatively, you can browse until you reach the product list associated with a category.

-
To assign all products that belong to a category to the configuration, select the respective check box for the category and click Assign.

-
To assign selected products of a category, drill down to the product list. Click Assign All to assign all products in the list, or select individual products from the list and click Assign Selected.


-