---
id: '555b0c501cad0a2bf78ddc62b1603f13'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/30003X'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:37:41.370610+00:00'
---
When integrating standard REST-API of IOM it might be helpful to see requests and responses. This may be useful if the desired information is not available otherwise, or it can be used additionally. This guide describes how to enable selected REST operations to see its request and response. The target audience of this guide is development, consulting, and operations.

During the resource discovery phase all REST-operations will be scanned.

For REST-operations that are configured, three handlers will be registered which will log data during a REST-call: for request, response, and response-payload.

To configure an operation, add its *operationId* into the values-files of Helm and execute an upgrade. Also see [Guide - Operate Intershop Order Management 3.X](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1911932456/Guide+-+Operate+Intershop+Order+Management+3.X).

The *operationId* can be found in the REST-API specification. Also see [Overview - Intershop Order Management REST API](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1910440913/Overview+-+Intershop+Order+Management+REST+API).

When configuring the operationId `createOrder`

the following output is available:

The response-payload when using operationId `updateTransmissions`

may look like:

For REST-API before IOM 2.13 check `OrderMessageLogDO`

in the database.

Furthermore, since IOM 2.13, the following operationIds cannot be used currently:

`getCacheStates`

, `getCacheStatus`

, `deleteCache`

`getContactPersons`

, `getReturnRequestItems`

`scheduleUpdate`

, `getSchedules`

, `getSchedule`

Also, gzip-compression is not supported yet.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.