---
id: '55ada734faa19e687ab039019880ca52'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/41303R'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:29:39.270775+00:00'
---
This document assists with planning and estimating migrations from ICM 7.10 to ICM 11+.

Tools support the migration of project source code cartridges to reduce the effort required for the migration, see [ICM Migration Support](https://github.com/intershop/icm-migration-support).

Documentation: [Overview - Migration Guidelines](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1783304082/Overview+-+Migration+Guidelines)

ICM Migration tools: [https://github.com/intershop/icm-migration-support](https://github.com/intershop/icm-migration-support)

Migrations from the Responsive Starter Store to the PWA, and from Solr to SPARQUE are outside the scope of this document.

**General overview of the scope covered in the estimation guide**

|
|
|---|---|
|
|

The following table lists migration tasks to be performed when migrating from ICM 7.10 to ICM 11+, based on the assumption that the tools will be used wherever tool support is available (indicated by the checkmark in the table).

**Note**

This list is provided for guidance only. It may not be complete and is not legally binding. Customers/partners are responsible for identifying and including all required migration activities during their own estimation and plans.

|
|
|
|---|---|---|
Base versions for ICM 11+ migrations are ICM 7.10.38.29 and all later 7.10 versions. The effort increases with the age of your current ICM 7.10 version. | Required only if project is on ICM 7.10 version < 7.10.38.29:
| |
By default, there are no
| The tool already creates project-specific example files. Effort calculation based on adjustments made in these files. | 75% tool coverage |
The directory structure within a cartridge has changed.
| Effort calculation based on amount of cartridges | 90% tool coverage |
The
| Effort calculation based on amount of cartridges | 90% tool coverage |
Feature cartridges are new in ICM 11. Such cartridges did not exist in ICM 7.10. Approach “Runnable Feature”, “Demo Feature”, “Test Feature”:
Alternative approach using one feature cartridge per environment:
| Effort calculation based on approach | |
Application Suite cartridges configure and integrate multiple application types to form a complete business scenario, e.g.: as_headless, as_backoffice, as_sldsystem, as_smc
| Effort calculation based on amount of applications using custom cartridges and number of custom cartridges added to each application | |
Cartridges might need to declare more dependencies in the
| Effort calculation based on amount of cartridges | |
The implementation of the REST APIs has changed.
For effort estimation, count the overwritten implementations of | Effort calculation based on amount of customized REST APIs | |
“Test System Configuration Solution Kit” (pf_configuration_fs) resource files need to be migrated to
| Effort depends on the amount of | 95% tool coverage |
Files deployed to There are no
For effort estimation, count:
| Effort calculation based on amount of deployment instructions, files, and custom fixes | 50% tool coverage |
| ||
Changes are required for
| Effort depends on the complexity of the individual staging process | |
Log only important information using log levels ERROR, WARN & INFO.
| Effort calculation based on amount of custom log files and adaptations of the log configuration | |
| Effort calculation based on amount of Java code | 95% tool coverage |
Remove ~150 deprecated methods/variables/constants/classes, etc.
| Effort calculation based on the uses of removed/changed APIs | 90% tool coverage |

The following table lists additional potential efforts for a migration project.

|
|
|---|---|
Developer ramp-up/training for ICM 11+ | Online training about migration tools and AI support: Gap training for new projects: |
Setup of local developer environments (Setup and configuration of new AKS environments) | Local developer environment per developer Setup and base configuration of new AKS environments (INT, UAT, PROD) will be done by the Intershop Operations Team (OPS) |
Test Preparation | Depends on what already exists (automatic tests, QA policies, etc.) and needs to be updated |
Test and Bugfixing
| Depends on amount of code changes and scope of QA |
Preparation
| Create a cutover checklist and plan in collaboration with Intershop Operations Team Final check of configuration, esp. Build/CI/CD Helm charts |
Cutover
| Execute cutover plan, hypercare on demand |
Project Management | Depends on your specific project policies, guidelines and processes, project duration, team size, and technical complexity |
Technical Lead Engineering | Depends on your specific project policies, guidelines and processes, project duration, team size, and technical complexity |

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.