---
id: '56287821874ecef306528de25f8fa096'
title: 'Locking Products'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32271D'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:42.453123+00:00'
---
# Locking Products

Before editing a product, you have to lock the product. Locking prevents the product from being edited by other users in parallel. The product lock can be released manually. It is released automatically after the configured lock interval has expired. See [Managing Product Locking](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/topic_managing_product_locking.html#task_pref_pim_lock) on how to configure the interval for product locking.

Basically, there are two ways to lock products: either directly from the product list, or via the Product detail view.

## Locking Products in List View

To lock products in the product list view:

-
Select the intended management context from the context selection box, then select Catalogs | Products.
This displays the product list view.
-
Click the icon in the row of the product(s) you intend to edit.
When opening the Standard Product dialog, all editing options are immediately enabled. An error message appears if the product is currently edited by another user.

## Locking Products in Detail View

To lock a product in the Product detail view:

-
Locate the product you want to edit.
For details, see
[Locating Products](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/task_locating_products.html). -
Click the name of the product you intend to edit.
The General tab of the Standard Product dialog is displayed.
-
Click the icon at the dialog top or the Lock button at the dialog bottom.
This activates buttons such as Save or Apply which are used to save product data. An error message appears if the product is currently edited by another user.