---
id: '5650257a0b37fa99871591cfca5c6434'
title: 'Reference - IOM REST API'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/29640E'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:40:42.023976+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/29640E

This API specification is available for download as an Open API 3.0 YAML file:

# Authentication

## Basic Authentication

Please configure your clients to use this authentication method to submit user name and password.

## Bearer Token Authentication

To generate a valid JWT, just log into the OMT, inspect the browser cookies and use the value of the cookie called 'OMS_IDENTITY' as JWT. Within a UI-client (e.g., Postman) choose "Bearer Token" and just type in a valid Json Web Token (JWT).

# Authorization

The permission "View schedules" (group REST services) is required to use the GET endpoints and must be assigned at shop or supplier, that has a relation to the transmission.

The permission "Manage schedules" (group REST services) is required to use the POST endpoints and must be assigned at shop or supplier, that has a relation to the transmission.

# API Specification

openapi: 3.0.0 info: title: IOM Schedule REST API description: The IOM Schedule REST API supports tasks to view and manage schedules of the IOM. contact: name: Intershop Communications AG url: http://intershop.com version: "1.0" servers: - url: '{protocol}://{domain}:{port}/rest/schedules' description: The production API server. variables: protocol: default: https enum: - http - https domain: default: localhost port: default: "8080" tags: - name: schedules description: Service to search the current state and last run of schedules, and to overwrite their basic configuration with runtime parameters. - name: schedulestates description: Search for schedules using their current state and configuration (the currently used configuration) or modify the configuration. - name: scheduleconfigs description: Search for schedules using their current state and configuration (both, the `default` and the `runtime` ones). paths: /schedulestates: get: tags: - scheduleStates summary: Get the schedules current states by search criterias. description: Returns all schedules for the selected search criterias. For attributes having a runtime equivalent those - when set - will be used for the search instead of the basic configuration. operationId: getSchedulesStates parameters: - name: active in: query description: Whether the schedule is active or not. required: false style: form explode: true schema: type: boolean - name: ids in: query description: The id of the schedule. required: false style: form explode: true schema: type: array items: type: integer - name: jobNames in: query description: The name of the job associated to the schedule. required: false style: form explode: true schema: type: array items: type: string - name: keys in: query description: The key associated to the schedule. required: false style: form explode: true schema: type: array items: type: string - name: isLocked in: query description: Whether the schedule is currently locked or not. required: false style: form explode: true schema: type: boolean - name: stopped in: query description: Schedules that will not run by themselves (inactive or having reached the `maxNoOfRetries`). required: false style: form explode: true schema: type: boolean - name: orderBy in: query required: false style: form explode: true schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/SortableScheduleAttribute' - name: sortDirection in: query required: false style: form explode: true schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/SortDirection' - name: limit in: query description: The number of items to return. If not set the limit is 1000. required: false style: form explode: true schema: type: integer example: 50 default: 1000 - name: offset in: query description: The number of items to skip before starting to collect the result set. required: false style: form explode: true schema: type: integer example: 0 default: 0 responses: 200: description: The response for a schedule collection request. content: application/vnd.intershop.schedule.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ScheduleStateCollectionContainer' 400: description: Bad request - Generic or business logic validation error. content: application/vnd.intershop.schedule.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ErrorReport' 401: description: Unauthorized - Authentication information is missing or invalid. headers: WWW-Authenticate: style: simple explode: false schema: type: string 403: description: Forbidden - the user is not authorized to use this resource. 406: description: Not Acceptable - A representation of the response in the media type that was requested in the ACCEPT header cannot be provided. 500: description: Internal Server Error - An unexpected error occured. security: - basicAuth: [] - bearerAuth: [] /schedulestates/{scheduleId}: get: tags: - scheduleStates summary: Get the schedule state by id. description: Returns the states of a single schedule for the given id. operationId: getScheduleStates parameters: - name: scheduleId in: path description: The id of the schedule. required: true style: simple explode: false schema: type: integer example: 107 responses: 200: description: Definition of the requested schedule. content: application/vnd.intershop.schedule.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ScheduleState' 400: description: Bad request - Generic or business logic validation error. content: application/vnd.intershop.schedule.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ErrorReport' 401: description: Unauthorized - Authentication information is missing or invalid. headers: WWW-Authenticate: style: simple explode: false schema: type: string 403: description: Forbidden - the user is not authorized to use this resource. 406: description: Not Acceptable - A representation of the response in the media type that was requested in the ACCEPT header cannot be provided. 500: description: Internal Server Error - An unexpected error occured. security: - basicAuth: [] - bearerAuth: [] patch: tags: - scheduleStates summary: Set the runtime configuration of a schedule. description: Allows to overwrite basic configuration parameters with runtime values. operationId: scheduleUpdate parameters: - name: scheduleId in: path description: The id of the schedule. required: true style: simple explode: false schema: type: integer example: 107 requestBody: description: You only need to provide the attributes that must be modified. Use the `resetList` to remove current runtime attributes. content: application/vnd.intershop.schedule.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ScheduleUpdate' responses: 200: description: Returns the updated schedule definition. content: application/vnd.intershop.schedule.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ScheduleState' 400: description: Bad request - Generic or business logic validation error. content: application/vnd.intershop.schedule.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ErrorReport' 401: description: Unauthorized - Authentication information is missing or invalid. headers: WWW-Authenticate: style: simple explode: false schema: type: string 403: description: Forbidden - the user is not authorized to use this resource. 406: description: Not Acceptable - A representation of the response in the media type that was requested in the ACCEPT header cannot be provided. 415: description: Unsupported Media Type - The media type of the sent body is not supported. 500: description: Internal Server Error - An unexpected error occured. security: - basicAuth: [] - bearerAuth: [] /scheduleconfigs: get: tags: - scheduleConfigs summary: Get schedules by search criterias. description: Returns all schedules for selected search criterias. This will include basic and runtime configuration. For attributes having a runtime equivalent, those - when set - will be used for the search instead of the basic configuration. operationId: getSchedules parameters: - name: active in: query description: Whether the schedule is active or not. required: false style: form explode: true schema: type: boolean - name: ids in: query description: The id of the schedule. required: false style: form explode: true schema: type: array items: type: integer - name: jobNames in: query description: The name of the job associated to the schedule. required: false style: form explode: true schema: type: array items: type: string - name: keys in: query description: The key associated to the schedule. required: false style: form explode: true schema: type: array items: type: string - name: isLocked in: query description: Whether the schedule is currently locked or not. required: false style: form explode: true schema: type: boolean - name: willRetry in: query description: Failed schedules with a retry timestamp. required: false style: form explode: true schema: type: boolean - name: orderBy in: query required: false style: form explode: true schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/SortableScheduleAttribute' - name: sortDirection in: query required: false style: form explode: true schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/SortDirection' - name: limit in: query description: The number of items to return. If not set the limit is 1000. required: false style: form explode: true schema: type: integer example: 50 default: 1000 - name: offset in: query description: The number of items to skip before starting to collect the result set. required: false style: form explode: true schema: type: integer example: 0 default: 0 responses: 200: description: The response for a schedule collection request. content: application/vnd.intershop.schedule.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ScheduleCollectionContainer' 400: description: Bad request - Generic or business logic validation error. content: application/vnd.intershop.schedule.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ErrorReport' 401: description: Unauthorized - Authentication information is missing or invalid. headers: WWW-Authenticate: style: simple explode: false schema: type: string 403: description: Forbidden - the user is not authorized to use this resource. 406: description: Not Acceptable - A representation of the response in the media type that was requested in the ACCEPT header cannot be provided. 500: description: Internal Server Error - An unexpected error occured. security: - basicAuth: [] - bearerAuth: [] /scheduleconfigs/{scheduleId}: get: tags: - scheduleConfigs summary: Get a schedule by id. description: Returns a schedule for the given id. This will include basic and runtime configuration. For attributes having a runtime equivalent, those - when set - will be used for the search instead of the basic configuration. operationId: getSchedule parameters: - name: scheduleId in: path description: The id of the schedule. required: true style: simple explode: false schema: type: integer example: 107 responses: 200: description: Definition of the requested schedule. content: application/vnd.intershop.schedule.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/Schedule' 400: description: Bad request - Generic or business logic validation error. content: application/vnd.intershop.schedule.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ErrorReport' 401: description: Unauthorized - Authentication information is missing or invalid. headers: WWW-Authenticate: style: simple explode: false schema: type: string 403: description: Forbidden - the user is not authorized to use this resource. 406: description: Not Acceptable - A representation of the response in the media type that was requested in the ACCEPT header cannot be provided. 500: description: Internal Server Error - An unexpected error occured. security: - basicAuth: [] - bearerAuth: [] components: schemas: ScheduleStateCollectionContainer: type: object properties: meta: $ref: '#/components/schemas/CollectionMetaData' data: type: array description: The core data of the schedule state collection. items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ScheduleState' description: A collection of `ScheduleState`. ScheduleCollectionContainer: type: object properties: meta: $ref: '#/components/schemas/CollectionMetaData' data: type: array description: The core data of the schedule collection. items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/Schedule' description: A collection of `Schedule`. ScheduleState: type: object properties: id: type: integer description: The id of the schedule. `read-only` example: 107 active: type: boolean description: Current active status. Only active schedules can be run. example: true configId: type: integer description: Referrences an internal implementation. Must not be modified. This is a information for the internal job name associated to the schedule. `read-only` example: 1 key: type: string description: Textual schedule identificator, not enforced to be unique. `read-only` example: CHECK_FOR_DATAPACK_FILES cron: type: string description: Current cron expression.Cron expression to define the job run times. Must match the quartz cron syntax. example: 0 45 23 L 1/1 ? * reactivateOnStart: type: boolean description: Current value. When true, jobs that did reach their `maxNoOfRetries` will be resetted automatically on the next controller startup. This happens during a deployment or fail over. example: true jobName: type: string description: Name of the internal job associated to the schedule. `read-only` example: checkForDatapackFiles lastRun: type: string description: Last check or execution of the schedule (successfully or not). This attribute is further updated for schedules that won't be executed after the `maxNoOfRetries` has been reached. `read-only` format: date-time lockedSince: type: string description: Corresponds to the start time of jobs currently running. `read-only` format: date-time retryCount: type: integer description: Number of failures since the last successful run. example: 2 maxNoOfRetries: type: integer description: Current value. How often a failed schedule will be retried. The schedule will stop execute after this limit is reached. To nevertheless force the schedule execution you can either raise this limit or set a next execution time per hand (choosing a timestamp in the past should trigger the schedule within the next minute). example: 25 retryDelay: type: string description: Current value. Time interval between retries of failed schedules. example: 7m nextRun: type: string description: Next time when a failed schedule will be retried. This value can be set by hand (`fixedNextRun`) or is defined after an attempt failure as long as the `maxNoOfRetries` is not reached. Is ignored by inactive schedules. When not set, then the next attempt is determined from the cron expression (given the schedule is active and the `maxNoOfRetries` has not been reached). This attribute is internally resetted to null when the schedule has run successfully or after the `maxNoOfRetries` has been reached. format: date-time description: type: string description: Schedule description. `read-only` example: Check for Datapack files. description: Represents the current state of the schedule. For attributes having a runtime equivalent those - when set - will be used for the search instead of the basic configuration. Note that attributes marked as `read-only`, will be ignored as part of a request. To support automatically generated mappers, the schema property of OpenApi-specification ´readOnly´, was not used here. Schedule: type: object properties: id: type: integer description: The schedule identifier. example: 107 activeConfigured: type: boolean description: Only active schedules can be run. Basic configuration, can be overwritten with `activeRuntime`. example: true activeRuntime: type: boolean description: Runtime configuration to overwrite the `activeConfigured`-flag. example: true configId: type: integer description: Referrences an internal implementation. Must not be modified. This is a information for the internal job name associated to the schedule.' example: 1 key: type: string description: Textual schedule identificator, not enforced to be unique. Must not be modified. example: CHECK_FOR_DATAPACK_FILES cronConfigured: type: string description: Cron expression to define the job run times. Must match the quartz cron syntax. Basic configuration, can be overwritten with `cronRuntime`. example: 0 45 23 L 1/1 ? * cronRuntime: type: string description: Runtime configuration to overwrite the `cronConfigured` expression. example: 0 45 23 L 1/1 ? * reactivateOnStartConfigured: type: boolean description: When true, jobs that did reach their `maxNoOfRetries` will be resetted automatically on the next controller startup. This happens during a deployment or fail over. Basic configuration, can be overwritten with `reactivateOnStartRuntime`. example: true reactivateOnStartRuntime: type: boolean description: Runtime configuration to overwrite the `reactivateOnStartConfigured`-flag. jobName: type: string description: Name of the internal job associated to the schedule. example: checkForDatapackFiles lastRun: type: string description: Last check or execution of the schedule (successfully or not). This attribute is further updated for schedules that won't be executed after the `maxNoOfRetries` has been reached. format: date-time lockedSince: type: string description: Corresponds to the start time of jobs currently running. format: date-time retryCount: type: integer description: Number of failures since the last successful run. example: 2 maxNoOfRetriesConfigured: type: integer description: How often a failed schedule will be retried. The schedule will stop execute after this limit is reached. To nevertheless force the schedule execution you can either raise this limit with `maxNoOfRetriesRuntime` or set a next execution time per hand (choosing a timestamp in the past should trigger the schedule within the next minute). example: 25 maxNoOfRetriesRuntime: type: integer description: Runtime configuration to overwrite `maxNoOfRetriesConfigured`. example: 30 retryDelayConfigured: type: string description: Time interval between retries of failed schedules. Basic configuration, can be overwritten with `retryDelayRuntime`. example: 7m retryDelayRuntime: type: string description: Runtime configuration to overwrite `retryDelayConfigured`. example: 7m nextRetryDate: type: string description: When a failed schedule will next be retried. Can be overwritten at runtime with `nextRun`. format: date-time fixedNextRun: type: string description: Runtime configuration. When set, this define the next time when the schedule should run. This attribute is resetted to null when the schedule is then being attempted (independently of it's success or error status). The `nextRetryDate`, crons and `maxNoOfRetries` have no effect when fixedNextRun is set; only the active[Runtime] status is still respected. format: date-time description: type: string description: The description of the schedule. example: Check for datapack files. description: Represents the current state of the schedule including basic and runtime configuration. The basic configuration parameters have the suffix `Configured`. The runtime configuration parameters have the suffix `Runtime`. If not set, the basic configuration will be used. ScheduleUpdate: type: object properties: active: type: boolean description: Only active schedules will be run. example: true cron: type: string description: Cron expression to define the job run times. Must match the quartz cron syntax. example: 0 45 23 L 1/1 ? * reactivateOnStart: type: boolean description: When true, jobs that did reach their `maxNoOfRetries` will be resetted automatically on the next controller startup. This happens during a deployment or fail over. example: true maxNoOfRetries: type: integer description: How often a failed schedule will be retried. The schedule will stop execute after this limit is reached. To nevertheless force the schedule execution you can either raise this limit with `maxNoOfRetriesRuntime` or set a next execution time per hand (choosing a timestamp in the past should trigger the schedule within the next minute). example: 25 retryDelay: type: string description: Time interval between retries of failed schedules. example: 7m fixedNextRun: type: string description: Fix time when the schedule will next be attempted. When set, the cron expression and `maxNoOfRetries` will be ignored. Setting this time in the past will call it as soon as possible (due schedules are checked for only once per minute). This value will be removed unconditionally after the attempt. format: date-time removeLock: type: boolean description: Internally, the lock exists when the start time of running jobs is set within the attribute lockedSince. You cannot modify this timestamp but can set it to null in order to remove the lock. Beware that this may lead to parallel process executions. example: false resetList: type: array description: List of attribute where a possible runtime configuration must be removed. Those of these attributes also present with a value within the request will be ignored (the reset list wins.) items: type: string enum: - active - cron - reactivateOnStart - maxNoOfRetries - retryDelay - fixedNextRun description: Attributes of a schedule a runtime configuration can be set for. The runtime configuration will be then used instead of the basic configuration. To reset an attribute back to the basic configurations use the `resetList`. `Note` that `lockedSinceUse` can't be set. `Note` that `fixedNextRun` has no basic configuration. SortableScheduleAttribute: type: string description: The attribute on which should be sorted. example: lastRun default: lastRun enum: - id - active - key - jobName - lastRun - lockedSince - retryCount - maxNoOfRetries - nextRetryDate SortDirection: type: string description: The sort direction the attribute should be sorted with. `ASC` - Sort by the attribute ascending. `DESC` - Sort by the attribute descending. example: DESC default: ASC enum: - ASC - DESC Status: type: integer description: The HTTP status code. format: int32 example: 403 Error: required: - code - message type: object properties: code: type: string description: Exception / Error code example: VALIDATION_EXCEPTION message: type: string description: Exception / Error message example: Attribute XYZ is mandatory value: type: object description: Value which caused the exception / error. ErrorReport: type: object properties: status: $ref: '#/components/schemas/Status' errors: type: array items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/Error' description: Detailed information about what went wrong. CollectionMetaData: type: object properties: totalCount: type: integer description: The total number of objects in the collection (without offset and limit). format: int64 example: 10000 description: The meta data of the collection. responses: ScheduleCollectionContainerResponse: description: The response of a schedule collection request. content: application/vnd.intershop.schedule.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ScheduleCollectionContainer' Created: description: Created - The entity was created successfully. Accepted: description: Accepted - The request was successful and will be processed asynchronously. MultiStatus: description: Multi Status - The request contains several response statuses. BadRequest: description: Bad request - Generic or business logic validation error. content: application/vnd.intershop.schedule.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ErrorReport' Unauthorized: description: Unauthorized - Authentication information is missing or invalid. headers: WWW-Authenticate: style: simple explode: false schema: type: string Forbidden: description: Forbidden - the user is not authorized to use this resource. NotFound: description: Not found - the resource is not found. NotAcceptable: description: Not Acceptable - A representation of the response in the media type that was requested in the ACCEPT header cannot be provided. UnsupportedMediaType: description: Unsupported Media Type - The media type of the sent body is not supported. InternalServerError: description: Internal Server Error - An unexpected error occured. parameters: LimitParam: name: limit in: query description: The number of items to return. If not set the limit is 1000. required: false style: form explode: true schema: type: integer example: 50 default: 1000 OffsetParam: name: offset in: query description: The number of items to skip before starting to collect the result set. required: false style: form explode: true schema: type: integer example: 0 default: 0 SortDirectionParam: name: sortDirection in: query required: false style: form explode: true schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/SortDirection' securitySchemes: bearerAuth: type: http description: JWT Bearer token scheme: bearer bearerFormat: JWT basicAuth: type: http description: Basic Authentication scheme: basic

[Open ReDoc-rendered Open API documentation in separate window.](https://knowledge.intershop.com/rdd/Redoc-29640E.html)

## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.