---
id: '575240307b869daf510d93290e7298d1'
title: 'Guide - Intershop PWA'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/311A64'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:39.940390+00:00'
---
With the growing importance of good Core Web Vitals (CWV) metrics, the Intershop PWA includes several optimizations and functionalities that are intended to improve these metrics.

The following chapter lists aspects of the Intershop PWA that are related to the CWV and should be considered while developing an Intershop PWA based storefront.

In addition, you will find relevant configuration options to keep in mind when maintaining the content of the PWA in the underlying Intershop Commerce Management.

The rendering of the Enhanced Image Teaser component is optimized in a way that assumes that this teaser content is located on a prominent place on a page, e.g., the home page.

In this spot, the component is not supposed to be loaded lazily which would worsen the CWV for that page, specifically the Largest Contentful Paint (LCP) metric.

To avoid that, Enhanced Image Teaser images are loaded by default with `loading="eager"`

instead of the default `loading="lazy"`

used for most other images in the PWA.

If `loading="lazy"`

is explicitly intended for certain Enhanced Image Teaser images, the class `loading-lazy`

needs to be added to the Enhanced Image Teaser instances `CSS Class`

configuration parameter in the ICM back office.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.