---
id: '57584a0bdca11227f8ee71c4a69af7a3'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2470L8'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:39:45.837101+00:00'
---
This concept is addressed to developers and deals for the most part with the technical aspects of the approval process. Shop managers can also benefit as it helps them to understand how the approval process is applied to channels and applications. Customer approval is a feature that allows shop managers to review self registrations made to a shop. The feature is configurable.

Like all customer-related features the approval feature is realized as a capability of the customer type. In other words, a developer has to configure a customer type to respect the approval process. On top of this, the approval process can be configured dynamically - a shop manager:

The dynamic approval preferences are realized as general settings to the channel's application repository. Since the approval preferences are stored to the application repository, their management takes benefits from the application repository concept. Thus, the preferences are applicable to all applications belonging to the said repository.

Before you continue reading, be sure to be familiar with the [Concept - Customers and Users](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1775671989/Concept+-+Customers+and+Users) as well as with the [Concept - Application Framework](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1917324476/Concept+-+Application+Framework) Developers should also have expert knowledge about business objects, business object extensions and how those extensions are created (extension factories).

Term | Meaning |
|---|---|
customer | From the shop manager's point of view, a customer is an actor at the |
customer type | In Intershop 7, customer types categorize customers. They indicate whether a customer represents an individual or household -> individual customer or business customer -> business customer Intershop 7's features can differ according to the customer type. For example, it can display either gross prices or net prices, provide additional profile information, hide certain functionalites, etc. |
individual customer | In Intershop 7, a customer type that represents an individual person or household. As opposed to business customers, exactly one user is assigned to one individual customer. They are presented gross prices by default. |
business customer | In Intershop 7, a customer type that represents a business. As opposed to individual customers, multiple users can be assigned to one business customer. They can be managed and are presented net prices by default. |
user | The meaning varies depending on the customer type:
|

*Application *and *Customer *are realized in the code by `ApplicationBO`

and `CustomerBO`

. Extending their capabilities is a matter of creating a new business object extension. The customer approval feature perfectly fits this approach. This functionality can be turned on and off at runtime. In addition, it can affect an existing business process with respect to its settings.

The approval status is not a direct attribute of the customer. On the contrary, the status is manageable/accessible via an extension of the `CustomerBO`

. Like any other customer-related functionality an applicable extension must be added to the customer type the customer is based on.

<instance name="PrivateCustomers" with="CustomerType" scope="app"> ... <fulfill requirement="applicableExtensionID" value="CustomerApproval" /> ... </instance>

This approach allows for easy plugging in and plugging out of the approval process. If it is assumed that the customer type does not have an applicable approval extension, the process is not applicable to the customer type in the whole system.

At the business object's layer the approval status of the customer is handled via the `CustomerBOCustomerApprovalExtension`

.

The applicability of the approval extension is determined by the *extension factory* which creates the approval extension.

Whether or not the extension can be created depends on the customer type's specifics, as shown below.

@Override public boolean isApplicable(BusinessObject object) { if (object instanceof CustomerBO) { CustomerBO customerBO = CustomerBO.class.cast(object); return super.isApplicable(object) && customerBO.getCustomerType().isApplicableExtension( CustomerBOCustomerApprovalExtension.EXTENSION_ID); } return false; }

This extension and the customer's concept is used to enable developers to configure how the customers behave in the system as a whole. This extension is not and should not be aware of any application-/domain-specific configuration about the approval process.

The approval status is internally backed up by a field in the customer's table in the database. The diagram below shows how it is implemented.

Having introduced the application model, the concept of the *channel repository* as the central point is outdated. Instead, applications have `ApplicationBORepository`

relations and they can create a new application themselves. The present concept bases on the application-specific customer approval process preferences.

Back office applications can create storefront applications by utilizing the `ApplicationBORepositoriesExtension`

extension. The approval process preferences should be managed at one place: the back office. Furthermore, the approval process preferences should be available for all applications in the sales channel.

Following the standard domain model, the *{{ApplicationBORepository}* has a domain-specific context and the preferences are stored internally as domain preferences.

Because of the separation of responsibilities different implementations of `ApplicationBOCustomerApprovalExtension`

wired to different applications behave differently. For example, the application extension for a back office application manages the preferences while the storefront application only reads them. The following sections illustrate these different behaviors.

The extension can dynamically configure given customers of a given customer type which are subjects of the approval process. This requires that the customer type is aware of the approval concept, i.e., the customer type must have configured the customer approval extension properly.

The internal implementation of the extension is not specific. It uses the domain behind the `ApplicationBORepository`

the back office application belongs to and stores the configurations as domain preferences.

The code below shows how those preferences are stored:

ApplicationBO applicationBO = getExtendedObject(); ApplicationBORepository applicationBORepository = applicationBO.getRepository("ApplicationBORepository"); Domain domain = domainMgr.getDomainByUUID(applicationBORepository.getRepositoryID()); domainPreferenceMgr.setStringPreference(CUSTOMER_APPROVAL_PREFERENCE_KEY, preferenceHelper.serialize(), domain);

As shown in the diagram above, there is an `ApplicationBOCustomerApprovalExtension`

in the base B2C cartridge that offers methods for verifying whether or not the approval process is enabled for the given customer type or is enabled at all. This extension is used as of now from the storefront applications.

The internal implementation differs from the back office implementation shown above. Instead of `ApplicationBORepository`

the storefront application seeks for the preferences in the domain from which it is created.

ApplicationBO applicationBO = getExtendedObject(); PersistentObjectBOExtension persistenObjectBOExtension = applicationBO.getExtension(PersistentObjectBOExtension.class); Domain domain = persistenObjectBOExtension.getPersistentObject().getDomain(); preference = domainPreferenceMgr.getStringPreference(CUSTOMER_APPROVAL_PREFERENCE_KEY, domain);

Of course, the `isEnabled`

methods include a check whether the approval is available for the customer at all.

if (!customerType.isApplicableExtension(CustomerBOCustomerApprovalExtension.EXTENSION_ID)) { return false; }

The approval preference `intershop.customer.approval.process.enabledForCustomerType`

is stored in the `PREFERENCE`

table. When configuring a new customer type which is subject of an approval process its ID is appended to the comma-separated list and stored to the database. The table below shows some examples about standard customer types.

Preference value | Approval status activated for |
|---|---|
SMB | Only |
PRIVATE | Only |
SMB;PRIVATE | Both |

If the database table returns no results on a query, the approval process is not enabled for any customer type. Checking the `PREFERENCEDEFINITION`

table shows the preference definition.

If the approval process is enabled, shop managers must be notified about incoming registrations. For this matter the `ApplicationBOCustomerApprovalExtension`

holds a list of users of a specific user group (`CustomerApprovalRecipients`

). Some additional business logic carries out the e-mail sending. The assignment of users to the user group with the ID `CustomerApprovalRecipients`

can only be managed at the *approval process preferences page* in the back office.

`CustomerBOCustomerApprovalExtension`

In applications it only needs to be checked for `ApplicationBO`

approval preferences if the customer is unknown (not logged in). The extension factory wired in an application takes the `isEnabled`

method of `ApplicationBOCustomerApprovalExtension`

into consideration. This means that the approval-related functionality can be triggered based on the existence of the extension.

@Override public boolean isApplicable(BusinessObject object) { if (object instanceof CustomerBO) { ApplicationBO applicationBO = object.getContext().getVariable(ApplicationBO.CURRENT); ApplicationBOCustomerApprovalExtension applicationBOCustomerApprovalExtension = applicationBO .getExtension(ApplicationBOCustomerApprovalExtension.class); CustomerBO customerBO = CustomerBO.class.cast(object); return super.isApplicable(object) && customerBO.getCustomerType().isApplicableExtension( CustomerBOCustomerApprovalExtension.EXTENSION_ID) && applicationBOCustomerApprovalExtension.isEnabled(customerBO.getCustomerType()); } return false; }

This can be used on various occasions. For example, checking if the approval/reject buttons are shown in the back office.

<isif condition="#isDefined(CustomerBO:Extension("CustomerApproval"))#"> <input type="submit" class="button kor-approval" value="Approve" name="approveCustomer"> <input type="submit" class="button kor-approval" value="Reject" name="rejectCustomer"> </isif>

Furthermore, a fine-grained process can be defined based on the approval status of the customer. For example, showing the approval/reject buttons only if the customer is still pending for the approval.

<isif condition="#isDefined(CustomerBO:Extension("CustomerApproval")) AND (CustomerBO:Extension("CustomerApproval"):Pending EQ 'true')#"> <input type="submit" class="button kor-approval" value="Approve" name="approveCustomer"> <input type="submit" class="button kor-approval" value="Reject" name="rejectCustomer"> </isif>

There are various occasions when an e-mail is sent to either someone that has to be notified about a pending registration or the customer itself.

The back office users in this list receive an e-mail when a new customer has been registered and if the approval process is enabled. Toggling the approval process state for a given customer type does not trigger this, e.g., no e-mail will be sent for a pending approval if the approval process is disabled.

The customer will receive e-mails on the following occasions:

Currently, the approval process is used for the review of a customer's registration only. Customers cannot log in until the registration is approved. However, it is conceivable to adjust the business logic for placing orders, shopping in general, viewing special parts of the webshop, etc.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.