---
id: '58904128c4f2b8dbfbd2cdbad497fd4f'
title: 'Guide - Intershop PWA'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3H0845'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:21.286446+00:00'
---
As explained in [Multi-Site Handling](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/g/intershop/intershop-pwa/blob/develop/docs/concepts/multi-site-handling.md), the PWA supports dynamic configurations of a single PWA container deployment.

This guide explains the YAML syntax used to define a configuration and provides some common configuration examples, mainly focusing on different setups for handling locales and channels.

For more information about how the YAML configuration is processed, refer to [Multi-Site Handling](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/g/intershop/intershop-pwa/blob/develop/docs/concepts/multi-site-handling.md) and [Building and Running NGINX Docker Image | Multi-Site](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/g/intershop/intershop-pwa/blob/develop/docs/guides/nginx-startup.md#Multi-Site).

The following snippet describes the syntax used when defining a multi-site configuration, consisting of multiple domain configuration nodes and properties:

```
'domain1':
channel: channel1
application: app1
features: f1,f2,f3
lang: la_CO
theme: name
```

The domain is interpreted as a regular expression.

Subdomains (`b2b\..+`

) as well as top level domains (`.+\.com`

) can be supplied.

The `channel`

property is also mandatory.

All other properties are optional:

Dynamically directing the PWA to different ICM installations can be done by using:

Multiple channels can also be configured via context paths that re-configure the PWA upstream to use a different `baseHref`

for each channel.

```
'domain2':
- baseHref: /us
channel: channelUS
lang: en_US
- baseHref: /de
channel: channelDE
lang: de_DE
```

The domain has to be supplied.

To match all domains use `.+`

.

The parameters `baseHref`

and `channel`

are mandatory.

`baseHref`

must start with `/`

.

Also note that context path channels have to be supplied as a list.

If the website is accessed without supplying a context path (meaning the context path is `/`

), **the first entry is chosen as the default configuration**.

It is also possible to explicitly set a channel configuration for the `/`

context path.

Such a configuration is shown in the following configuration that sets different languages for the according context paths but within the same channel.

```
'domain2':
- baseHref: /fr
channel: channel
lang: fr_FR
- baseHref: /de
channel: channel
lang: de_DE
- baseHref: /
channel: channel
lang: en_US
```

This setup is used by our demo application.

It uses a single channel and a static URL, while locales are changed via a context path (`baseHref`

) parameter.

This results in URLs like this:

`www.pwademo.com/en`

,

`www.pwademo.com/de`

,

`www.pwademo.com/fr`


```
.+:
- baseHref: /en
channel: default
lang: en_US
- baseHref: /de
channel: default
lang: de_DE
- baseHref: /fr
channel: default
lang: fr_FR
```

It is possible to extend this configuration to use different channels per context path.

To do this, replace the `default`

value with your desired channel.

This is a common configuration, where each channel uses its own domain and assigned locale.

It works also with multi-language channels in conjunction with context paths, as seen in the Canadian example.

This results in URLs like this:

`www.pwademo.com`

, `www.pwademo.de`

, `www.pwademo.ca/en`


```
.+\.ca:
- baseHref: /en
lang: en_CA
channel: inspired-inTRONICS-CA
- baseHref: /fr
lang: fr_CA
channel: inspired-inTRONICS-CA
.+\.de:
lang: de_DE
channel: inspired-inTRONICS-DE
.+\.com:
lang: en_US
channel: inspired-inTRONICS-US
.+\.fr:
lang: fr_FR
channel: inspired-inTRONICS-FR
```

It is also possible to configure different subdomains by changing the regular expression that matches the domain.

This also works in conjunction with context paths.

This results in URLs like this:

`de.pwademo.com`

, `fr.pwademo.com`

, `ca.pwademo.com/en`


```
de.+\.com:
lang: de_DE
channel: inspired-inTRONICS-DE
en.+\.com:
lang: en_US
channel: inspired-inTRONICS-US
fr.+\.com:
lang: fr_FR
channel: inspired-inTRONICS-FR
ca.+\.com:
- baseHref: /en
lang: en_US
channel: inspired-inTRONICS-CA
- baseHref: /fr
lang: fr_FR
channel: inspired-inTRONICS-CA
```

To see what is possible through multi-site handling, have a look at this extended demo configuration.

```
.+\.net:
- baseHref: /de
lang: de_DE
channel: inSPIRED-inTRONICS-Site
theme: b2c
- baseHref: /us
lang: en_US
channel: inSPIRED-inTRONICS_Business-Site
features: quoting,businessCustomerRegistration
.+\.de:
channel: inSPIRED-inTRONICS-Site
lang: de_DE
theme: b2c
.+\.com:
channel: inSPIRED-inTRONICS_Business-Site
features: quoting,businessCustomerRegistration
.+\.fr:
channel: inSPIRED-inTRONICS_Business-Site
lang: fr_FR
application: rest
features: quoting
```

```
de.+\.com:
lang: de_DE
channel: inspired-inTRONICS-DE
protected: false
ca.+\.com:
- baseHref: /fr
channel: inspired-inTRONICS-CA
lang: fr_FR
protected: false
- baseHref: /en
channel: inspired-inTRONICS-CA
lang: en_US
```

To construct new multi-site URLs when switching between languages, the PWA uses the `multi-site.service.ts`

.

The `getLangUpdatedUrl`

is called with the desired locale string, current URL, and current baseHref.

From this, it constructs a new URL, conforming to our multi-site setup (see [One Domain, One Channel, Multiple Locales](https://knowledge.intershop.com#one-domain-one-channel-multiple-locales)).

To control the transformation of URLs, the `multiSiteLocaleMap`

environment variable is used.

Depending on your needs, `multiSiteLocaleMap`

can be set in either the `environment.ts`

or as an environment variable (`MULTI_SITE_LOCALE_MAP`

).

See [ docker-compose.yml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/develop/docker-compose.yml) for a commented out example or

`environment.model.ts`

In case you want to disable this functionality, override the default environment variable `multiSiteLocaleMap`

with `undefined`

or `MULTI_SITE_LOCALE_MAP`

with `false`

.

In case you want to extend this functionality to work with more locales, extend the default environment variable `multiSiteLocaleMap`

with your additional locales.

In case you want to transfer this functionality to work with your specific multi-site setup, override the `multi-site.service.ts`

and provide an implementation that conforms to your setup (as well as configuring the environment variable for your specific use case).

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.