---
id: '5920e6fe63225c079432d67927c342e2'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3122Z4'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:49.195337+00:00'
---
The ICM sometimes needs to encrypt (and decrypt) data, for example, for persistence or transport. Therefore, the ICM uses a separate library named `com.intershop:encryption`

. This library provides code that implements all the use cases required by the ICM. The library also provides a command-line tool that can be used, for example, to create an encryption configuration from scratch.

|
|
|---|---|
JCE | |
Docker |

The encryption library consists of the following software components to implement the use cases:

The components have the following semantics / purpose:

|
|
|---|---|
EncryptionManager | This is the main component that actually implements the |
KeyManager | Implements the lookup (and storage) of JCE-Keys. |
CipherFactory | Implements the lookup of JCE-Cipher instances. |
EncryptionConfigs | Contains 1 to n EncryptionConfig instances and implements the lookup. |
EncryptionConfig | Encapsulates a single encryption config, see |
EncryptionConstraints | Implements some constrains to be fulfilled, especially regarding the |
EncryptedData | Encapsulates encrypted data (how it is stored or transported) and contains code to parse and render string representations of encrypted data, see |
KeyManagerFactory | Implements the instantiation of a |
Keystore | Implementation of |
NullKeystore | NoOp-implementation of |
KeystorePassphrase | Encapsulates the actual passphrase to access the |
AlphanumericPassphrase | Encapsulates a passphrase consisting of letters and digits. |
RandomFile | Encapsulates the access to the |

The configuration of the encryption framework consists of the following aspects:

Location of the `keystore`

file

Location of the `random`

file

The `strictMode`

flag, see [Concept - Encryption | The Strict Mode](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48920526866/Concept+-+Encryption#The-Strict-Mode)

Several other configuration values for the several instances of `EncryptionConfig`


These aspects are reflected in the `GlobalEncryptionConfiguration`

interfaces, which contain appropriate accessor methods in addition to the `getConfigurationAccessor`

method, which returns an instance of `ConfigurationAccessor`

that provides access to all remaining configuration values.

Main purpose of the `strictMode`

flag (`intershop.encryption.strictMode.enabled`

) is to ensure that `PRD`

environments do not use the `PLAIN`

encryption. Therefore, the `strictMode`

is enabled by default. An enabled `strictMode`

has the following consequences:

If the `keystore`

file is missing, the server start fails.

If the `random`

file is missing, the server start fails.

When trying to encrypt a value (`com.intershop.common.encryption.capi.EncryptionManager#encryptString`

) with `algorithm=PLAIN`

, the encryption fails with an exception.

On the other hand, a disabled `strictMode`

has the following consequences:

The server can start without the `keystore`

file and the `random`

file.

The server can start without the *encryption.properties* file.

The `KeyManagerFactory`

uses the NullKeystore.

A default `EncryptionConfig`

with `algorithm=PLAIN`

is used.

As a result, `PRD`

environments are forced to use proper encryption, and developers can omit the encryption configuration altogether.

The encryption framework supports 0 to n different encryption configs, which contain the following attributes:

|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|
placeholder | Placeholder inside the keys of the properties | String | mandatory |
id | Name/ID of the encryption config | String | mandatory |
algorithm | Name of the encryption algorithm to use | String | optional, default= |
isDefault | If | Boolean | optional, default= |

The properties are then organized into groups of 1 to 3 property entries, all using the same placeholder and following the pattern:

`intershop.encryption.$placeholder.(id|algorithm|isDefault)`


Typically the placeholders are numeric values starting with `0`

.

Example encryption configs properties:

#Intershop Encryption Configuration #Fri Apr 12 07:19:44 CEST 2024 intershop.encryption.0.id=encryption0 intershop.encryption.0.algorithm=PLAIN intershop.encryption.0.default=false intershop.encryption.1.id=verysave intershop.encryption.1.algorithm=PBEWithMD5AndTripleDES intershop.encryption.1.default=true intershop.encryption.2.id=verysave2 intershop.encryption.2.algorithm=PBEWithHmacSHA512AndAES_256 intershop.encryption.2.default=false intershop.encryption.3.id=demo intershop.encryption.3.algorithm=PLAIN intershop.encryption.3.default=false intershop.encryption.keystore.password=LGh31TxVaverusD1uQEqNdYgehjJFsF5KxcCndYuM1VBvKQ8N0f34KrrW0j2ZXcArb8DElhrzXi9AmZCPe35TvdMgR

There is the additional property `intershop.encryption.keystore.password`

, see [Concept - Encryption | The Keystore-file](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48920526866/Concept+-+Encryption#The-keystore-file) for details.

The keys to be used for encryption and decryption are stored in a JCEKS keystore. This keystore and the keys within this keystore are encrypted using a passphrase. Therefore, this passphrase is required to open the keystore and look up the keys. The storage of this passphrase is divided into 4 parts:

The value of the property `intershop.encryption.keystore.password`

, see `com.intershop.common.encryption.internal.KeystorePassphrase#externalPassphrase`


Content of the random file

90 hard-coded indexes pointing to chars out of the `random`

file content

90 hard-coded chars

To create the above mentioned encryption configs, the `keystore`

file, and the `random`

file, a command line tool is provided as a Docker container. The corresponding Docker image is available at [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/intershophub/icm-as-libraries-encryption/general). For a detailed description of how to use it, refer to [Cookbook - Encryption](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48934715460).

For many use cases, encrypted data needs to be stored in a database, for example. This data needs to be decrypted later. So the encrypted data has to be stored in a way that it can be decrypted even if the default encryption config (see [Concept - Encryption | Encryption Configs](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48920526866/Concept+-+Encryption#Encryption-configs)) has been changed. Therefore, the encrypted data contains the following information:

|
|
|
|---|---|---|
Encryption config ID | 1 to n chars out of:
| mandatory |
Algorithm name | 1 to n chars out of:
| mandatory |
Salt used during encryption (optional) | 1 to n chars out of (base64-alphabet):
| optional |
Actual data | 1 to n chars out of (base64-alphabet):
| mandatory |
Initialization vector used during encryption (optional) | 1 to n chars out of (base64-alphabet):
| optional |

The encryption data as a whole follows the pattern: `<id>@<algorithm>:[<salt>|]<data>[|<ivSalt>]`


During a typical encryption, see `com.intershop.common.encryption.capi.EncryptionManager#encryptString`

, the following steps are executed:

Look up default encryption config.

Look up the key that matches that encryption config.

Instantiate JCE-`Cypher`

matching that key (using generated salt and initialization vector).

Execute the actual encryption.

Render encrypted data, see [Concept - Encryption | Encrypted Data Syntax](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48920526866/Concept+-+Encryption#Encrypted-Data-Syntax).

During a typical decryption, see `com.intershop.common.encryption.capi.EncryptionManager#decryptString`

, the following steps are executed:

Parse the encrypted data, see [Concept - Encryption | Encrypted Data Syntax](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48920526866/Concept+-+Encryption#Encrypted-Data-Syntax).

Look up default encryption config using the ID from the encrypted data.

Look up the key that matches that encryption config.

Instantiate JCE-`Cypher`

matching that key (using salt and initialization vector from the encrypted data).

Execute the actual decryption.

During a typical encryption, see `com.intershop.common.encryption.capi.EncryptionManager#reencryptString`

, the following steps are executed:

Decrypt the data.

Encrypt the data (typically using a new default encryption config).

`icm-as`

)The code that uses the encryption library must use the methods of the `com.intershop.common.encryption.capi.EncryptionManager`

. The provided implementation of `com.intershop.common.encryption.capi.EncryptionManager`

is `com.intershop.common.encryption.internal.EncryptionManagerImpl`

, which has dependencies on:

`EncryptionConfigs`


`EncryptionConstraints`


`KeyManager`


`CipherFactory`


Therefore, the code you use must instantiate these components (in `icm-as`

, see `com.intershop.beehive.core.internal.modules.EncryptionModule`

). The most complex part is creating the `KeyManager`

, so this is implemented in `com.intershop.common.encryption.internal.KeyManagerFactoryImpl`

.

It actually executes the following steps:

If a `keystore`

file and a `random`

file exist: Return a `com.intershop.common.encryption.internal.Keystore`

that can load the keys from the `keystore`

file.

If either the `keystore`

file or the `random`

file is missing:

If `strictMode`

is enabled: Let the creation fail with a meaningful exception (make the `icm-as`

-startup fail).

If `strictMode`

is disabled: Return a `com.intershop.common.encryption.internal.NullKeystore`

that just is a no-op-implementation (allows to run the `icm-as`

without any encryption config).

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.