---
id: '592b11be44d90e25edd2146bbd13b267'
title: 'Reference - Sparque Center'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3142Q0'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:17.996566+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/3142Q0

This API specification is available for download as an Open API 3.1.1 YAML file:

# References

The following page lists available REST APIs for Sparque Center:

# API Specification

openapi: 3.1.1 info: title: Intershop Sparque Center - Redirect Aggregates REST API description: | The _Intershop Sparque Center - Redirect Aggregates REST API_ contains resources for retrieving all redirects within a specified workspace. **Note**: These resources support only UTF-8/16/32-encoded requests as specified in [RFC 4627](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4627.txt). ## Changelog ### Version 1.2.0 * Added a new versioned endpoint `/v1/workspaces/{workspaceName}/redirects` for redirect aggregates * Deprecated the unversioned endpoint `/workspaces/{workspaceName}/redirects` in favor of the new versioned endpoint * Deprecated the `redirect` schema and introduced a new schema `RedirectAggregate` with the same content * Updated responses for client errors * Changed default server protocol to `https` * Removed `http` choice from server protocols ### Version 1.1.0 * Added authentication via HTTP header `x-api-key` * Added new property `channelId` * Property `channel` has been deprecated: Use `channelId` instead * Updated title, descriptions and tags ### Version 1.0.1 * Updated OpenAPI specification version to 3.1.1 * `operationId` got renamed to `getWorkspaceRedirectsV1` version: "1.2.0" servers: - url: "{protocol}://{domain}:{port}/isc/rest" variables: protocol: default: https enum: - https domain: default: localhost port: default: "8080" security: - ApiKeyAuthQuery: [] - ApiKeyAuthHeader: [] tags: - name: Redirect Aggregates description: This section covers operations for retrieving redirect aggregates for SPARQUE. paths: /workspaces/{workspaceName}/redirects: get: deprecated: true tags: - Redirect Aggregates operationId: getWorkspaceRedirectsVersionUnspecified summary: Returns redirect aggregates for a workspace description: | Deprecated. Use the endpoint `/v1/workspaces/{workspaceName}/redirects` instead. This operation returns a list of redirects for a specific workspace. parameters: - name: workspaceName description: The name of the workspace for which redirects should be retrieved in: path required: true schema: type: string - name: key description: | The API key provided as query parameter. Not recommended, as the secret could be stored in web server, proxy or load balancer logs. Either this parameter or the preferred alternative HTTP header parameter `x-api-key` is required. in: query required: false schema: type: string - name: x-api-key in: header required: false description: | The API key provided as header (has higher precedence than the query parameter). Either this parameter or its alternative query parameter `key` is required. schema: type: string responses: "200": description: Ok - Redirect aggregates for the given workspace were successfully retrieved. content: application/json: schema: type: array items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/RedirectAggregate" "400": description: Bad Request - The request was invalid. "401": description: Unauthorized - Authentication information is missing or invalid. "403": description: Forbidden - The provided API key is not authorized to access the requested workspace. "500": description: Server Error - An unexpected error occurred. /v1/workspaces/{workspaceName}/redirects: get: tags: - Redirect Aggregates operationId: getWorkspaceRedirectsV1 summary: Returns redirect aggregates for a workspace description: This operation returns a list of redirects for a specific workspace. parameters: - name: workspaceName in: path required: true description: The name of the workspace for which redirects should be retrieved schema: type: string - name: key in: query required: false description: | The API key provided as query parameter. Not recommended, as the secret could be stored in web server, proxy or load balancer logs. Either this parameter or the preferred alternative HTTP header parameter `x-api-key` is required. schema: type: string - name: x-api-key in: header required: false description: | The API key provided as header (has higher precedence than the query parameter). Either this parameter or its alternative query parameter `key` is required. schema: type: string responses: "200": description: Ok - Redirect aggregates for the given workspace were successfully retrieved. content: application/json: schema: type: array items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/RedirectAggregate" "400": description: Bad Request - The request was invalid. "401": description: Unauthorized - Authentication information is missing or invalid. "403": description: Forbidden - The provided API key is not authorized to access the requested workspace. "500": description: Server Error - An unexpected error occurred. components: schemas: RedirectAggregate: type: object properties: word: type: string description: A search word that should trigger a redirect url: type: string description: The URL to which the redirect points channel: type: string deprecated: true description: Deprecated. Use `channelId` instead. channelId: type: string description: The ID of the channel associated with the redirect redirect: type: object deprecated: true description: Deprecated. Use `RedirectAggregate` instead. properties: word: type: string description: A search word that should trigger a redirect url: type: string description: The URL to which the redirect points channel: type: string deprecated: true description: Deprecated. Use `channelId` instead. channelId: type: string description: The ID of the channel associated with the redirect securitySchemes: ApiKeyAuthQuery: type: apiKey in: query name: key description: | The API key provided as query parameter (unsecure, not recommended). Either this parameter or its alternative header parameter `x-api-key` is required. ApiKeyAuthHeader: type: apiKey in: header name: x-api-key description: | The API key provided as header (has higher precedence than the query parameter). Either this parameter or its alternative query parameter `key` is required.

[Open ReDoc-rendered Open API documentation in separate window.](https://knowledge.intershop.com/rdd/Redoc-3142Q0.html)

## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.