---
id: '593c2030bace1a8163640df933c23e7b'
title: 'API Specification'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/294A28'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:38:50.583221+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/294A28

openapi: 3.0.0 info: title: IOM TRANSMISSION REST API description: The transmission REST API supports tasks to view and manage transmissions of the IOM. contact: name: Intershop Communications AG url: http://intershop.com version: "1.0" servers: - url: '{protocol}://{domain}:{port}/rest' description: The production API server. variables: protocol: default: https enum: - http - https domain: default: localhost port: default: "8080" tags: - name: transmission description: Transmission related operations exposed by this service. paths: /transmissions: get: tags: - transmission summary: Get transmissions by search criterias. description: Returns all transmissions for selected search criterias. operationId: getTransmissions parameters: - name: creationDate[gte] in: query description: The earliest creation date of a transmission. required: true style: form explode: true schema: type: string format: date-time - name: creationDate[lte] in: query description: The latest creation date of a transmission. required: true style: form explode: true schema: type: string format: date-time - name: transmissionTypes in: query required: false style: form explode: true schema: type: array items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/TransmissionType' - name: transmissionSubtypes in: query required: false style: form explode: true schema: type: array items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/TransmissionSubtype' - name: transmissionStatuses in: query required: false style: form explode: true schema: type: array items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/TransmissionStatus' - name: transmissionResponseStatuses in: query required: false style: form explode: true schema: type: array items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/TransmissionResponseStatus' - name: receiverTypes in: query required: false style: form explode: true schema: type: array items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ReceiverType' - name: shopIds in: query required: false style: form explode: true schema: type: array items: type: integer description: The id(s) of the shop(s). format: int64 example: 1 - name: supplierIds in: query required: false style: form explode: true schema: type: array items: type: integer description: The id(s) of the supplier(s). format: int64 example: 1 - name: limit in: query description: The number of items to return. If not set the limit is 1000. required: false style: form explode: true schema: type: integer example: 50 default: 1000 - name: offset in: query description: The number of items to skip before starting to collect the result set. required: false style: form explode: true schema: type: integer example: 0 default: 0 - name: orderBy in: query required: false style: form explode: true schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/SortableTransmissionAttribute' - name: sortDirection in: query required: false style: form explode: true schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/SortDirection' responses: 200: description: The response for a transmission collection request. content: application/vnd.intershop.transmission.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/TransmissionCollectionContainer' 400: description: Bad request - Generic or business logic validation error. content: application/vnd.intershop.transmission.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ErrorReport' 401: description: Unauthorized - Authentication information is missing or invalid. headers: WWW-Authenticate: style: simple explode: false schema: type: string 403: description: Forbidden - the user is not authorized to use this resource. 406: description: Not Acceptable - A representation of the response in the media type that was requested in the ACCEPT header cannot be provided. 500: description: Internal Server Error - An unexpected error occured. security: - basicAuth: [] - bearerAuth: [] components: schemas: TransmissionCollectionContainer: type: object properties: meta: $ref: '#/components/schemas/CollectionMetaData' data: type: array description: The core data of the transmission collection. items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/Transmission' Transmission: type: object properties: id: type: string description: The transmission identifier. example: ORDERTRANSMISSION-10000 transmissionType: $ref: '#/components/schemas/TransmissionType' transmissionSubtype: type: string description: | The subtype of the transmission. Please note the string representation to support subtypes from schema `TransmissionType` and unknown subtypes, e.g. custom ones. example: MAIL_ORDER status: $ref: '#/components/schemas/TransmissionStatus' responseStatus: $ref: '#/components/schemas/TransmissionResponseStatus' creationDate: type: string description: The date when the transmission was created. format: date-time modificationDate: type: string description: The date when the transmission was modified. format: date-time orderId: type: integer description: The id of the order. format: int64 example: 10026 shopOrderNumber: type: string description: The order number as used by the shop. example: 20180303_123 shopId: type: integer description: The id of the shop. format: int64 example: 1000 shopName: type: string description: The name of the shop. example: Test Shop US DE supplierId: type: integer description: The id of the supplier. format: int64 example: 1000 supplierName: type: string description: The name of the supplier. example: Test Supplier US DE receiverType: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ReceiverType' retryCount: type: integer description: Number of sending attempts. example: 2 retryDate: type: string description: The date of the last attempt to send the transmission. format: date-time nextRetryDate: type: string description: The next date to send the transmission. format: date-time errorText: type: string description: The error text, if the transmission failed. example: This was no error, because the status was set OK. TransmissionType: type: string description: | The type of the transmission. `ORDERTRANSMISSION` - Transmissions that are used for order processing messages, e.g. to announce an order entry. Subtypes of this type start with `ORDER_`. `DISPATCHTRANSMISSION` - Transmissions that are used for dispatch messages, e.g. a delivery that was made. Subtypes of this type start with `DISPATCH_`. `RETURNTRANSMISSION` - Transmissions that are used for return messages, e.g. a received return. Subtypes of this type start with `RETURN_`. `PAYMENTTRANSMISSION` - Transmissions that are used for payment notification messages, e.g. a received payment. Subtypes of this type start with `PAYMENT_`. `MAILTRANSMISSION` - Transmissions that are used for emails, e.g. to send a delivery email to the customer. Subtypes of this type start with `MAIL_`. `RESPONSETRANSMISSION` - Transmissions that are used for response messages, e.g. to respond to a delivery request. Subtypes of this type start with `RESPONSE_`. `INVOICETRANSMISSION` - Transmissions that are used for invoice processing messages. Subtypes of this type start with `INVOICE_`. `DOCUMENTTRANSMISSION` - Transmissions that are used for document processing messages. Subtypes of this type start with `DOCUMENT_`. `RETURNANNOUNCEMENTTRANSMISSION` - Transmissions that are used for return announcements messages. Subtypes of this type start with `RETURNANNOUNCEMENT_`. For any type use `OTHERS` for subtypes that are not listed, e.g. custom ones. example: ORDERTRANSMISSION enum: - ORDERTRANSMISSION - DISPATCHTRANSMISSION - RETURNTRANSMISSION - PAYMENTTRANSMISSION - MAILTRANSMISSION - RESPONSETRANSMISSION - INVOICETRANSMISSION - DOCUMENTTRANSMISSION - RETURNANNOUNCEMENTTRANSMISSION TransmissionSubtype: type: string description: | The subtype of the transmission, that defines a special transmission of a type, e.g. an email that was sent to confirm an order. Use subtypes that start with `ORDER_` for type `ORDERTRANSMISSION`. Use subtypes that start with `DISPATCH_` for type `DISPATCHTRANSMISSION`. Use subtypes that start with `RETURN_` for type `RETURNTRANSMISSION`. Use subtypes that start with `PAYMENT_` for type `PAYMENTTRANSMISSION`. Use subtypes that start with `MAIL_` for type `MAILTRANSMISSION`. Use subtypes that start with `RESPONSE_` for type `RESPONSETRANSMISSION`. Use subtypes that start with `INVOICE_` for type `INVOICETRANSMISSION`. Use subtypes that start with `DOCUMENT_` for type `DOCUMENTTRANSMISSION`. Use subtypes that start with `RETURNANNOUNCEMENT_` for type `RETURNANNOUNCEMENTTRANSMISSION`. Use the subtype `OTHERS` for any type for unlisted subtypes, e.g. custom ones. `ORDER_CHECKED` - Send a message that an order was validated. `ORDER_ANNOUNCEMENT` - Send an order. `ORDER_BACKLOG` - Send a message that the scheduled delivery date has been exceeded. At least one product has not yet been delivered. `ORDER_RECALL` - Send a recall request for an order. `ORDER_CONFIRMATION` - Send the confirmation for an order. `ORDER_RECALL_REQUEST` - Resend the recall request for an order. `ORDER_BACKLOG_REQUEST` - Send a reminding message that the scheduled delivery date has been exceeded. At least one product has not yet been delivered. `ORDER_APPROVAL` - Send the approval of an order. `ORDER_RESEND` - Resend an order. `DISPATCH_SEND` - Send a dispatch message. `DISPATCH_REQUEST_NEW` - Send the request for a new dispatch. `RETURN_SEND` - Send a return message. `RETURN_CONFIRMATION` - Send the confirmation of a return. `RETURN_REJECT` - Send the rejection of a return. `RETURN_REQUEST_NEW` - Send a request for a new return. `PAYMENT_SEND` - Send a payment notification. `MAIL_ORDER` - Send an email to confirm an order. `MAIL_ORDER_MERGE` - Send an email that orders was merged to one fulfillment. `MAIL_READY_FOR_PICKUP` - Send an email that a delivery is ready to pickup. `MAIL_ORDER_COMMISSIONED` - Send an email that an order was successfully commissioned. `MAIL_TEMPORARY_RESPONSE` - Send an email that an order will be routed to the assigned fulfillment locations. `MAIL_INITIAL_RESPONSE` - Send an email that a response was created. `MAIL_COUNTINUOUS_RESPONSE` - Send an email that a response from the supplier was received. `MAIL_DISPATCH` - Send an email that a dispatch was made. `MAIL_DISPATCH_IMMATERIAL` - Send an email with links to download digital goods. `MAIL_RETURN_CAN` - Send an email to note or confirm a return because of a cancellation. `MAIL_RETURN_RCL` - Send an email that the order was canceled. `MAIL_RETURN_INV` - Send an email to note an inversion, e.g. the package could not be delivered because of a wrong shipping address. `MAIL_RETURN_RET` - Send an email for a general return. `MAIL_RETURN_DEF` - Send an email to confirm a return because of defects of a product. `MAIL_PAYMENT_REMINDER` - Send an email that a payment has not yet been made. `MAIL_DELIVERY_DELAY` - Send an email to note that the expected delivery date will be delayed. `MAIL_INVOICE` - Send an email with an attached invoice document. `MAIL_CEDIT_NOTE` - Send an email with an attached credit note document. `MAIL_RETURN_RCL010` - Send an email that the order was canceled. The customer has requested the cancellation. `MAIL_RETURN_RCL020` - Send an email that the order was canceled. The product is end-of-life and not available any longer. `MAIL_RETURN_RCL021` - Send an email that the order was canceled. The product is currently not available. `MAIL_RETURN_RCL045` - Send an email that the order was canceled. The payment was not received yet. `MAIL_RETURN_RCL980` - Send an email that the order was canceled. There is a suspicion of fraud. `MAIL_RETURN_REJECTED` - Send an email that a return was rejected. `MAIL_DISPATCH_INVOICE` - Send an email that a dispatch was made. An invoice document is attached to the email. `MAIL_RETURN_CREDIT_NOTE` - Send an email to note or confirm a return or cancellation. A credit note document is attached to the email. `MAIL_RETURN_CAN_CREDIT_NOTE` - Send an email to note or confirm a return because of a cancellation. A credit note document is attached to the email. `MAIL_RETURN_RCL_CREDIT_NOTE` - Send an email that the order was canceled. A credit note document is attached to the email. `MAIL_RETURN_INV_CREDIT_NOTE` - Send an email to note an inversion, e.g. the package could not be delivered because of a wrong shipping address. A credit note document is attached to the email. `MAIL_RETURN_RET_CREDIT_NOTE` - Send an email for a general return. A credit note document is attached to the email. `MAIL_RETURN_DEF_CREDIT_NOTE` - Send an email to confirm a return because of defects of a product. A credit note document is attached to the email. `MAIL_RETURN_RCL010_CREDIT_NOTE` - Send an email that the order was canceled. The customer has requested the return or cancellation. A credit note document is attached to the email. `MAIL_RETURN_RCL020_CREDIT_NOTE` - Send an email that the order was canceled. The product is end-of-life and not available any longer. A credit note document is attached to the email. `MAIL_RETURN_RCL045_CREDIT_NOTE` - Send an email that the order was canceled. The payment was not received yet. A credit note document is attached to the email. `MAIL_RETURN_REFUNDED` - Send an email that a refund was made. `MAIL_RETURN_RCL980_CREDIT_NOTE` - Send an email that the order was canceled. There is a suspicion of fraud. A credit note document is attached to the email. `MAIL_RETURN_RCL021_CREDIT_NOTE` - Send an email that the order was canceled. The product is currently not available. A credit note document is attached to the email. `MAIL_RETURN_LABEL` - Send an email with an attached return label. `MAIL_RETURN_ANNOUNCEMENT` - Send an email that a return request was created. `MAIL_RETURN_ANNOUNCEMENT_TRANSMISSION` - Send an email that a transmission for a return request was created. `RESPONSE_SEND` - Send a response message. `RESPONSE_CONFIRMATION` - Send the confirmation of a response. `RESPONSE_REQUEST_NEW` - Send the request for a new response. `RESPONSE_TEMPORARY` - Send a temporary response. `RESPONSE_INITIAL` - Send an initial response. `RESPONSE_CONTINUOUS` - Send a following response. `INVOICE_CREATE_DOCUMENT` - Create an invoice document. `INVOICE_DEBITOR_SEND`- Send debitor related information. `INVOICE_OPEN_ITEM_SEND` - Send invoice related information. `DOCUMENT_SUPPLIER_DELIVERY_NOTE_SEND` - Send a delivery note to a supplier. `DOCUMENT_SUPPLIER_RETURN_SLIP_SEND` - Send a return slip to a supplier. `DOCUMENT_SUPPLIER_ORDER_RETURN_LABEL_SEND` - Send a return label to a supplier. `DOCUMENT_SHOP_DELIVERY_NOTE_SEND` - Send a delivery note to a shop. `DOCUMENT_SHOP_RETURN_SLIP_SEND` - Send a return slip to a shop. `DOCUMENT_SHOP_ORDER_RETURN_LABEL_SEND` - Send a return label to a shop. `DOCUMENT_SHOP_INVOICE_CREDIT_NOTE` - Send an invoice and/or credit note to a shop. `RETURN_ANNOUNCEMENT_SEND` - Send a return announcement. `OTHERS` - All subtypes that are not listed, e.g. custom ones. example: MAIL_ORDER enum: - ORDER_CHECKED - ORDER_ANNOUNCEMENT - ORDER_BACKLOG - ORDER_RECALL - ORDER_CONFIRMATION - ORDER_RECALL_REQUEST - ORDER_BACKLOG_REQUEST - ORDER_APPROVAL - ORDER_RESEND - DISPATCH_SEND - DISPATCH_REQUEST_NEW - RETURN_SEND - RETURN_CONFIRMATION - RETURN_REJECT - RETURN_REQUEST_NEW - PAYMENT_SEND - MAIL_ORDER - MAIL_ORDER_MERGE - MAIL_READY_FOR_PICKUP - MAIL_ORDER_COMMISSIONED - MAIL_TEMPORARY_RESPONSE - MAIL_INITIAL_RESPONSE - MAIL_COUNTINUOUS_RESPONSE - MAIL_DISPATCH - MAIL_DISPATCH_IMMATERIAL - MAIL_RETURN_CAN - MAIL_RETURN_RCL - MAIL_RETURN_INV - MAIL_RETURN_RET - MAIL_RETURN_DEF - MAIL_PAYMENT_REMINDER - MAIL_DELIVERY_DELAY - MAIL_INVOICE - MAIL_CEDIT_NOTE - MAIL_RETURN_RCL010 - MAIL_RETURN_RCL020 - MAIL_RETURN_RCL021 - MAIL_RETURN_RCL045 - MAIL_RETURN_RCL980 - MAIL_RETURN_REJECTED - MAIL_DISPATCH_INVOICE - MAIL_RETURN_CREDIT_NOTE - MAIL_RETURN_CAN_CREDIT_NOTE - MAIL_RETURN_RCL_CREDIT_NOTE - MAIL_RETURN_INV_CREDIT_NOTE - MAIL_RETURN_RET_CREDIT_NOTE - MAIL_RETURN_DEF_CREDIT_NOTE - MAIL_RETURN_RCL010_CREDIT_NOTE - MAIL_RETURN_RCL020_CREDIT_NOTE - MAIL_RETURN_RCL045_CREDIT_NOTE - MAIL_RETURN_REFUNDED - MAIL_RETURN_RCL980_CREDIT_NOTE - MAIL_RETURN_RCL021_CREDIT_NOTE - MAIL_RETURN_LABEL - MAIL_RETURN_ANNOUNCEMENT - MAIL_RETURN_ANNOUNCEMENT_TRANSMISSION - RESPONSE_SEND - RESPONSE_CONFIRMATION - RESPONSE_REQUEST_NEW - RESPONSE_TEMPORARY - RESPONSE_INITIAL - RESPONSE_CONTINUOUS - INVOICE_CREATE_DOCUMENT - INVOICE_DEBITOR_SEND - INVOICE_OPEN_ITEM_SEND - DOCUMENT_SUPPLIER_DELIVERY_NOTE_SEND - DOCUMENT_SUPPLIER_RETURN_SLIP_SEND - DOCUMENT_SUPPLIER_ORDER_RETURN_LABEL_SEND - DOCUMENT_SHOP_DELIVERY_NOTE_SEND - DOCUMENT_SHOP_RETURN_SLIP_SEND - DOCUMENT_SHOP_ORDER_RETURN_LABEL_SEND - DOCUMENT_SHOP_INVOICE_CREDIT_NOTE - RETURN_ANNOUNCEMENT_SEND - OTHERS TransmissionStatus: type: string description: | The processing status of the transmission. `INITIAL` - Transmission is initially stored. `DO_PULL` - Transmission will be pulled. `PULLED` - Transmission was received (pulled) from the sender. `DO_PUSH` - Transmission can be sent (pushed) to the receiver. `PUSHED` - Transmission was sent (pushed) to the receiver. `DO_MANUAL_CHECK` - The processing of transmission was canceled because of errors. The transmission has to be checked manually. `CHECKED` - The transmission was checked manually and is ready to process. `DO_CANCEL` - The transmission will be canceled. `CANCELED` - Transmission can be canceled because processing is not required any longer. `TRANSMISSIONED` - Transmission was submitted. `CONFIRMED` - Transmission was confirmed from the receiver. example: CONFIRMED enum: - INITIAL - DO_PULL - PULLED - DO_PUSH - PUSHED - DO_MANUAL_CHECK - CHECKED - DO_CANCEL - CANCELED - TRANSMISSIONED - CONFIRMED TransmissionResponseStatus: type: string description: | The status of the response of the transmission. `OK` - The transmission was successfully received. `INVALID` - An error occurred during validation check at the receiver. `REJECTED` - The operation was rejected by the receiver. `EXTERNAL_ERROR` - An unexpected error occurred at the receiver. `INTERNAL_ERROR` - Internal unexpected error has occurred. `NOT_AVAILABLE` - The response status is not set. example: REJECTED enum: - OK - INVALID - REJECTED - EXTERNAL_ERROR - INTERNAL_ERROR - NOT_AVAILABLE ReceiverType: type: string description: | The type of the receiver of a transmission. `OMS` - The OMS-application itself. `SHOP` - The shop is the receiver of the transmission. `SUPPLIER` - The supplier is the receiver of the transmission, e.g. of a delivery request. `CUSTOMER` - The customer is the receiver of the transmission, e.g. an email to confirm an order. `PAYMENTPROVIDER` - A payment provider is the receiver of the transmission, e.g. to note a received payment to. `FINANCECONTROLLER` - A finance contoller is the receiver of the transmission, e.g. a debitor management system that receives open amounts. example: SHOP enum: - OMS - SHOP - SUPPLIER - CUSTOMER - PAYMENTPROVIDER - FINANCECONTROLLER SortableTransmissionAttribute: type: string description: | The attribute on which should be sorted. `id` - Sort by the identifier in scope of it's type. `transmissionSubtype` - Sort by the subtype of the transmission. `status` - Sort by the processing status. `responseStatus` - Sort by the response status. `creationDate` - Sort by the creation date. `modificationDate` - Sort by the modification date. `orderId` - Sort by the id of the order. `shopOrderNumber` - Sort by the shop order number. `shopId` - Sort by the id of the shop. `shopName` - Sort by the name of the shop. `supplierId` - Sort by the id of the supplier. `supplierName` - Sort by the name of the supplier. `receiver` - Sort by the receiver of the transmission. `retryCount` - Sort by the number of sending attempts. `retryDate` - Sort by the date of the last attempt to send. `nextRetryDate` - Sort by the next date to send. `errorText` - Sort by the possible error message of the transmission. example: creationDate default: id enum: - id - transmissionType - transmissionSubtype - status - responseStatus - creationDate - modificationDate - shopOrderNumber - orderId - shopId - shopName - supplierId - supplierName - receiverType - retryCount - retryDate - nextRetryDate - errorText SortDirection: type: string description: | The sort direction the attribute should be sorted with. `ASC` - Sort by the attribute ascending. `DESC` - Sort by the attribute descending. example: ASC default: ASC enum: - ASC - DESC Error: required: - code - message type: object properties: code: type: string description: Exception / Error code example: VALIDATION_EXCEPTION message: type: string description: Exception / Error message example: Attribute XYZ is mandatory value: type: object description: Value which caused the exception / error. ErrorReport: type: object properties: status: $ref: '#/components/schemas/Status' errors: type: array items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/Error' description: Detailed information about what went wrong. Status: type: integer description: The HTTP status code. format: int32 example: 400 CollectionMetaData: type: object properties: totalCount: type: integer description: The total number of objects in the collection (without offset and limit). format: int64 example: 10000 description: The meta data of collection. responses: TransmissionCollectionContainerResponse: description: The response for a transmission collection request. content: application/vnd.intershop.transmission.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/TransmissionCollectionContainer' Accepted: description: Accepted - The request was successful and will be processed asynchronously. BadRequest: description: Bad request - Generic or business logic validation error. content: application/vnd.intershop.transmission.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ErrorReport' Unauthorized: description: Unauthorized - Authentication information is missing or invalid. headers: WWW-Authenticate: style: simple explode: false schema: type: string Forbidden: description: Forbidden - the user is not authorized to use this resource. NotFound: description: Not found - the resource is not found. NotAcceptable: description: Not Acceptable - A representation of the response in the media type that was requested in the ACCEPT header cannot be provided. UnsupportedMediaType: description: Unsupported Media Type - The media type of the sent body is not supported. InternalServerError: description: Internal Server Error - An unexpected error occured. parameters: LimitParam: name: limit in: query description: The number of items to return. If not set the limit is 1000. required: false style: form explode: true schema: type: integer example: 50 default: 1000 OffsetParam: name: offset in: query description: The number of items to skip before starting to collect the result set. required: false style: form explode: true schema: type: integer example: 0 default: 0 SortDirectionParam: name: sortDirection in: query required: false style: form explode: true schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/SortDirection' securitySchemes: bearerAuth: type: http description: JWT Bearer token scheme: bearer bearerFormat: JWT basicAuth: type: http description: Basic Authentication scheme: basic

[Open ReDoc-rendered Open API documentation in separate window.](https://knowledge.intershop.com/rdd/Redoc-294A28.html)

## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.