---
id: '5947c084a5e1a0facf81c298507ff8b2'
title: 'Feature List'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2B7800'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:02.266017+00:00'
---
The present document outlines the features available with the version 1.1 of Intershop's Omni-Channel Services Toolset (OCST).

## Omni-Channel Services Toolset | |
Toolset | Web Developers can use the OCST to implement service applications based on the WebShop REST API and/or 3rd Party Systems. The Ember Framework allows to reuse encapsulated functionality in several applications. The modular architecture allows an easy enhancement of customer specific implementations. |
| Adapters | Adapters hold the REST calls. The Web Developer can easily add adapters to the OCST structure to use further REST calls for specific applications. |
| Controllers | The Web Developer can find all methods processing the REST calls in controllers. Further controllers can be added to the architecture to enhance the functionality. |
| Models | User Interface (UI) related data are held in models. Data models can be adjusted or extended. |
| Views | The UI functionality is encapsulated in UI snippets called Views. They can be used for several UIs, replaced, updated or further can be added. |
| Routes | Routes wire all the Framework components to functional parts. Functional parts can be added or customized by adding or changing routes. |

## Contact Center | |
Customer Search | A customer search can be processed in a channel or over all channel of the organisation the agent has signed in for. The search can be processed as simple or advanced search. A customer can be selected for further service actions. |
Single field search | The single field search requires at least 3 signs and searches in e-mail addresses, customer numbers and surnames without further specification. |
Advanced search | The advanced search allows search 9 different parameters in specified fields to find a customer:
The search can be restricted to one channel of the organization. |
| Customer Overview | Profile and Order information are delivered via REST and shown in the application. |
Recent Orders | The last orders of the customer are shown in a list sorted in descending order by the order number. |
Order details | An order in the list of recent orders can be opened to show detail information the REST API has delivered. |
Customer information | The customer information depend on the selected customer. For B2C customers all stored addresses are shown beside the common profile data. For B2B customers company information are additionally shown. |
| Coupons | Coupons represent promotion codes that entitle customers benefit from a specific promotion. The contact center agent can select a promotion from a list of available promotions and generate a promotion code for the customer. The agent can submit the generated code to the customer via e-mail. |
| Quick Order | Quick Order is possibility to checkout on behalf of the customer from a single page. |
Shopping cart | Contact center agents can add products directly by entering the SKU of the product. If the product has variants, the product variation can be selected in a dialog. The basket is created, when the first product is added. The agent can edit the quantity or remove the line items from the cart. |
Product search | Products can be found by giving a part of the SKU or the product name in a search form. The search result is given in a list. Each product can be added from that list to the cart. |
Coupon | Coupons can be applied by the contact center agent in a form in two steps. First he/she selects an available promotion from a list and generates the code, which is shown automatically in another form field. Alternatively the code can be typed by agent listening the spelling of the customer. Second step is to apply the code to the cart by simply press an apply button. |
Addresses | The default shipping and invoice addresses are automatically shown for checkout the cart. Both can be changed, if the customer's profile has more than one stored. Furthermore an additional address can be created and is saved at the profile. |
Payment | The contact center agent can select one of the available payment methods. The availability of the payment methods depend on the preferences in the channel and on the configuration for the contact center with a white list. New bank connection details for the payment method Direct Debit Transfer can be added to the order and saved to the customer account. |
Shipping Method | The eligible shipping methods depend on the product configurations in Intershop Commerce Management and the selected delivery address. Each method which updates the cart updates the list of eligible shipping methods for each line item. |
Take over basket | Existing shopping carts from the selected customer can be taken over by the agent in the contact center and processed in the same way like new ones that have been generated in the contact center. The contact center agent has two possibilities to take over the cart.
All changes are visible for a customer who is online and logged in after refreshing the browser. The customer has the option to check out the modified cart in the storefront. |
Place order | Once all shopping cart details are properly set and applied, the agent can place the order on the customer's behalf. |
Co-Browse | The contact center agent can start a "co-browsing" storefront session. That means, the agent is logged in to the storefront using the customer's credentials. The catalogs and product, prices, promotions, content etc. are displayed to the agent in the same way as to the customer. |
## Synaptic Commerce API | |
| |
| Customer Service | Customer information can be managed. Promotion codes can be created and send to customers. |

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.