---
id: '598e4c650f032bd89dd2987dce2c915c'
title: 'Exporting Promotion Codes'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3U2596'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:18.900295+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/3U2596

# Exporting Promotion Codes

To export and download promotion codes to a file:
-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Marketing | Import & Export.
This displays the Promotion Import & Export manager.

-
In the Promotion Codes (CSV) section of the manager, click Export.
-
Specify the export options and click Next.
You can either choose to export all codes, or only those codes that have a certain status (redeemed, not redeemed, or deactivated). Select the appropriate option from the drop-down list. If you only want to export codes from specific promotion code groups, unselect the All Promotion Code Groups check box. If you do so, you will be prompted to select the promotion code groups in the next step.

-
Optional: Select one or more promotion code groups, then click Next.
-
Provide a name for the export file including the file extension (*.csv).
-
Click Export.
You are returned to the overview page of the Import & Export manager. The page status will be updated at regular intervals. Wait for the export process to finish.

-
Download the export file.

## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.