---
id: '59dccbee06cb02b0d669a2aa01ea701b'
title: 'Introduction'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/325A37'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:34.016955+00:00'
---
# Introduction

Welcome to the Intershop Commerce Management user manual for sales and partner organizations. The user manual is designed to help Intershop Commerce Management users of sales and partner organizations accomplish administration tasks as efficiently as possible.

The user manual covers tasks that correspond to the three main areas of Intershop Commerce Management:

-
Organization Level

Tasks performed on organization level include, among others, managing master catalogs and products, master content, channels, users, services, etc.

-
Sales Channel

Tasks performed on sales channel level include, among others, managing applications, customers and customer segments, channel catalogs and products, channel content, orders, services and online marketing activities.

-
Partner Channel

Tasks performed on partner channel level include, among others, managing partners, channel catalogs and products, channel content, and orders.


The user manual is divided into sections. Use the navigation bar on the left pane to access each section.

-
This section provides an overview of basic concepts and architectural features, including an overview of the general user interface structure of Intershop Commerce Management and an overview of the main administrative tasks.

-
This section introduces catalog and product concepts and outlines administrative tasks related to repository management, catalog management, import and export. The section also covers product syndication and synchronization, product sharing, as well as catalog and product import/export.

-
This section covers tasks related to creating, managing and sharing master pages, components and other assets that are subject to content management.

-
This section introduces online marketing concepts and outlines administrative tasks related to managing promotions and discounts, coupons and gift certificates, affiliate partners and partner programs, and short links.

-
This section introduces the order process and outlines administrative tasks related to managing orders, including order status handling and order export, as well as managing shipping methods and payment methods.

-
This section outlines concepts and administrative tasks related to managing customer profiles and customer segments. The section also covers customer import and export tasks.

-
This section introduces organization concepts and outlines administrative tasks related to managing the organization structure, channels, applications, partners and stores. The section also covers services management and localization tasks. In addition, it describes mass data operations available in Intershop Commerce Management, like data replication, labels, data feeds, etc.