---
id: '5a09f81a1819e85c302041f915fa098b'
title: 'Guide - Intershop PWA'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/30D819'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:36:30.797825+00:00'
---
The data models for server-side and client-side have to be separated, because the data sent by the server may change over iterations or may not be in the right format, while the client side shop data handling should be stable for a long time.

Therefore, each service communicating with the Intershop REST API should only respond with mapped PWA models.

The format of raw data from the server is defined by an interface (*.interface.ts*) and mapped to a type used in the Angular application (*.model.ts*).

Both files have to be close together so they share a parent directory in *src/core/models*.

Next to them is a *.mapper.ts* to map the raw type to the other.

**category.interface.ts**

```
export interface CategoryData {
id: string;
name: string;
raw: string;
}
```

**category.model.ts**

```
export interface Category {
id: string;
name: string;
transformed: number;
}
```

The mapper should be a class with static methods that will be used in the corresponding service.

In special cases, the mapper class might need some dependencies to transform data correctly.

In that case, you can declare it as an `Injectable`

and use Angular's dependency injection mechanism to provide an instance in your service.

Warning

If the mapper needs no dependencies, always use static methods!

**category.mapper.ts**

```
export class CategoryMapper {
static fromData(categoryData: CategoryData): Category {
const category: Category = {
id: categoryData.id,
name: categoryData.id,
transformed: CategoryHelper.transform(categoryData.raw),
};
return category;
}
static fromObject(category: Category): CategoryData {
const categoryData: CategoryData = {
id: category.id,
name: category.id,
raw: CategoryHelper.raw(categoryData.transformed),
};
return categoryData;
}
}
```

A *.helper.ts* can be introduced to provide utility functions for the model.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.