---
id: '5b36c1d71d2f97cbf7f9ae12c0cb565c'
title: 'Creating Service Configurations'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/R32701'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:51.273669+00:00'
---
# Creating Service Configurations

Note:

Creating a service configuration requires the corresponding service type to be enabled for the organization by the central administrator.

To create a local service configuration:

-
Select the management context from the context selection box.
This opens the navigation bar for the management context.
-
In the navigation bar, select Services.
This displays the available service configurations.
-
Click New.
This starts the New Service Configuration wizard, displaying the Determine Service Type segment.
-
Select the intended service type and click Next.
Select the radio button of the service type for which you intend to create a new configuration. Clicking Next displays the General Information segment.
-
Specify the required general information and click Next.
The mandatory information includes ID, display name and activation status. Clicking Next displays the Configuration Settings segment.Tip:Checking the Available checkbox enables the new service configuration globally. That is, it becomes operational as soon as it is set active on one of the dependent levels.
-
Specify the required configuration values and click Next.
The configuration parameters depend on the given service type. If necessary, contact your system administrator to get the necessary information. Clicking Next displays the Sharing Rule Selection segment.
-
Select a sharing rule.
Note:The sharing rules define the availability of the current service configuration in the dependent management contexts. The following settings are possible:The sharing functionality is only available in management contexts that have dependent, or "child", management contexts with which the service configuration can be shared.
Table 1. Service configuration sharing rules Rule Description Unshared The service configuration is not shared with dependent management contexts. Shared and active The service configuration is shared with dependent management contexts and immediately set active. It can be deactivated individually in the corresponding dependent management context. Shared and inactive The service configuration is shared with dependent management contexts and set inactive. That is, it must be explicitly activated individually in the corresponding dependent management context. Shared and mandatory The service configuration is shared with dependent management contexts and mandatorily set active. It cannot be deactivated in the corresponding dependent management context. -
Click Finish to create the service configuration.
Otherwise, click Cancel to discard the operation.