---
id: '5c09bd0ddeeb2685a429e370f575051b'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/T23303'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:37:44.004563+00:00'
---
Examples:

Let us assume the Shop Manager of PrimeTech Specials wants to know, whether a **Buy Now!** banner can increase the customer conversions for placing orders.

Or if the new idea for a great **promotion** attracts enough attention.

Or he might want to gain first feedback from a small exclusive group of customers about an upcoming visual relaunch of the website by providing them a **page variant**.

There is now the possibility to define an A/B Test with two or more A/B Test groups. The users of PrimeTech Specials are **transparently assigned to one of these groups**.

One group only sees the usual storefront, but the other sees the test content that is assigned to that group only.

By **monitoring the users main activities**, like watching the pages with the test content, applying a test promotion or finally the checkout, the Shop Manager can overview a number of **statistics**.

These statistics provide **feedback**, whether an A/B Test group shows **significant differences** in the users behavior on the store.

Using this approach the Shop Manager gets a fundamental statistical analysis on how to use **supporting content and making online marketing decisions**.

Term | Description |
|---|---|
A/B test | an instance of an A/B test |
A/B test group | an instance of a test group assigned to an A/B test; unequal to the user groups (in the context of this document also for short: test group) |
user, session, participant | the final user who |
eligible user | user who matches the target group of a specified active A/B test |
target group | the users, that are defined by an A/B test to choose the participants from |
consumer group | user groups like |
content, test object | the test content, that is assigned to a certain A/B test group and is visible to this group (e.g., promotions, page variants or components) |
control group | a special A/B test group; represents a fraction of the website users, that is seeing the usual content; |
event | the events a user can trigger during an A/B test; |
triggering, logging | if a user is setting off an event, it is being logged into the database including several collected data |
conversion | a conversion defines a customer conversion; |
collector | a Java class designed to collect the logged events from the database and to accumulate the calculated outcomes to statistics |
calculator | a Java class defining the event and conversion calculation, that is used by a collector |

This document covers common questions regarding customizing and extending A/B Test functionality on the basis of examples:

This section provides an overview of the principle of the **Intershop A/B Test** functionality.

An **A/B test** is defined by **two or more A/B test groups**. Each of them has different assigned test content that can be a set of content **components, page variants and promotions**.

One of the A/B test groups is the **control group**. The control group represents a fraction of the targeted users, which only sees the "normal" storefront.

Therefore there are the following states for users regarding A/B tests, which are important to differentiate:

→ i.e., Not all eligible users participate, but all participating users are assigned to an A/B test group.

**Definition of "active":**

An A/B test is active, if it is enabled and in status:

It is not active if it is either disabled or in status:

(see [A/B Test Status](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Concept-ABTesting-ABTestStatus))

Participation and A/B test group assignments are stored in a browser cookie, so a returning eligible user will get the same participating status and group assignment again.

→ content | basic | control | test | ... | test | monitored? |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|
|
| no | |||
eligible, but |
|
| no | |||
assigned to |
|
| yes | |||
assigned to |
|
|
| yes | ||
... |
|
| ... | yes | ||
assigned to |
|
|
| yes |

There are at least *two types* of A/B test groups. The normal A/B test groups and the control group.

A user of the **control group** sees the content as if he/she would not participate in the A/B test at all. Therefore, this content's visibility is totally unrelated to the state of the A/B test (even when the A/B test is not active).

Note

That does not necessarily mean that all users of the control group see the same content. What content an individual user sees depends on the *customer segment* the user belongs to, possible *individual settings* for the customer and the visibility settings of *campaigns*, *promotions* and *content* itself.

For more detailed information on customer segmentation and visibility restrictions, please see:

There is only one exception: If content is explicitly assigned to the control group, every user that belongs to the control group will see this content and vice versa a user of a test group cannot see this content. This makes it possible to run A/B tests even for already existing content just by adding it to the control group.

If content that is assigned to the control (or a test) group should also be visible to users of a test group, then this content has to be assigned to this test group.

The A/B Test knows about its accessibility. Extensions to a Java extension point com.intershop.component.marketing.capi.abtest.ABTestBOAccessibilityHandler-isAccessible can be used to implement the specific rules by which a A/B Test is accessible. For the A/B Test to be considered accessible, there should be no extensions available or at least one extension has to return that the A/B Test is accessible.

In the standard system an accessibility extension exists that checks whether the A/B Test is active (i.e., enabled and running), and the customer is part of the target group.

None of the content assigned to the normal A/B test groups is visible. However, the content of the control group is visible based on the standard visibility settings.

Precondition: the A/B test must be active

For performance reasons it is recommended for high-traffic websites that they do not assign all eligible users to the A/B test, but only a fraction.

The eligible users, which are not participating in the A/B test, see the same as if the A/B test is inactive or if they were not eligible, i.e., none of the content assigned to the normal A/B test groups is visible. However, the content of the control group is visible based on the standard visibility settings.

Non-participating users are (like not-eligible users) not monitored for this particular A/B test.

This way the particular members of the control group see the same content like the not-participating users, but can still be monitored regarding the base line content like the other A/B test groups.

Nevertheless, it still can happen that a not-participating user of one A/B test is a member of an A/B test group from another active A/B test.

Precondition: the A/B test must be active

In general: Only the users, which are assigned to a particular (normal) A/B test group can see the content that is assigned to their A/B test group.

Therefore, no one else sees their content (with the exception of the 'Control Group', see below) and, vice versa, they do not see the content of the other A/B test groups of the same A/B test.

Exception: see ([Making ABTest Content Visible Outside the ABTest / ABTesting Existing Content](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Concept-ABTesting-MakingABTestContentVisible))

The activities of the A/B test groups are monitored by logging the triggered events the users are setting off.

The control group is a special A/B test group.

Precondition: the A/B test must be active

Like with all A/B test groups, the assigned content is not visible to the users of the other A/B test group of the same A/B test.

However, for all the others, including the users of the control group, the visibility of this content is only based on the standard visibility settings. Therefore, this content can be visible to everyone (except the users from the other A/B test groups) if the visibility settings are set this way.

This means, its content can ALSO be visible to the non-participating users (i.e., users that are eligible, but are not assigned to an A/B test group).

Exception: see ([Making ABTest Content Visible Outside the ABTest / ABTesting Existing Content](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Concept-ABTesting-MakingABTestContentVisible))

As the control group is still a special A/B test group, it is monitored as well.

A Shop Manager must be aware that multiple A/B tests that are active at the same time can conflict with each other.

Example:

In this case the user will not see the content - **the do not show condition has priority.**

Exception:

In case a conflict occurs between the content of a **promotion** that is assigned to the first test and content that is explicitly assigned to the second test, the promotion's content has priority in terms of visibility.

To avoid such conflicts Intershop recommends to set different time periods for A/B tests that may conflict like outlined above.

If this is not possible the Shop Manager can combine the contents of both tests in a single A/B test with, e.g., multiple test groups. The system ensures that a user is assigned only to one group of a single A/B test.

A Shop Manager must be aware that the customer segment of a user may be changeable.

Example:

To avoid such conflicts a Shop Manager should think about the changebility of customer segments and avoid to use A/B test contents in contexts where a customer may switch to another segment.

Note

Previously recorded data remain in the statistic and can be analyzed as required. When analyzing keep in mind that assigning users based on dynamically changable parameters may lead to strange results. To stick with the example outlined above; a lot of canceled orders from unregistered users does not neccessarily mean that they are not triggered by the new promotion.

In some situations, especially when already available content is assigned to an A/B Test, it might be useful to have A/B Test content also visible to users outside the A/B Test.

Normally, assigned content is only visible if the A/B Test is active and the users match the criteria above.

**Use case 1:**

Premium users see a special piece of content, like a red button, that is not visible to others.

The shop manager wants to test if this red button might be good for normal registered users.

Therefore the same content must be visible to a particular A/B Test group (set up for the registered users) and must stay visible to the premium users all the time.

→ Making A/B Test content visible to non-eligible users.

**Use case 2:**

All users normally see a piece of content, like a 10% promotion.

The shop manager wants to test, whether sales increase if this promotion is changed.

Therefore the already existing content must stay visible as long as the A/B Test is not active. It must be visible according to the A/B Test criteria, if active.

→ Making A/B Test content visible if the A/B Test is not active.

So either the shop manager adds the existing content to the control proup to make this content visible based on the standard visibility settings.

Or he assigns **the desired users, consumer groups or affiliate users to the content itself.**

Note

To create and/or manage an A/B test for a specific application the executing individual (e.g., the Shop Manager) needs the permissions for the application.

The Intershop A/B test feature can be found in the Commerce Management application's Marketing tab.

The main page lists all existing A/B tests of the application.

`session.ttl`

is set in file The following sections describe the detailed preferences.

When creating a new A/B test, the user can set several properties of the test. They can be changed in the tab Properties of the test's detail view later on.

Preference | Description |
|---|---|
Name | The name of the A/B test; |
Decription | A description of the A/B test |
Start Date, | The time period the A/B test is scheduled to run |
Ratio of User Participation | The probability a target user is chosen to participate in this A/B test; |
Maximum Participants Allowed | The overall count of user sessions participating at the A/B test; |
enabled | Only enabled A/B tests are active for the scheduled period |

The target users can be specified as a set of:

The available customer segments are taken from the customer segmentation service. When assigning a customer segment to the A/B test a hidden consumer and user group are created for the given segment if one does not already exist. The customer segment is assigned to the A/B test via that user group.

Only users of these specified user groups are eligible to participate at the A/B test.

This view shows a list of all A/B test groups of the A/B test.

Click the preview button (Action column) to open the Design Preview panel with the particular A/B test group assigned to this session.

Note

The preview buttons are only visible if the A/B test is *enabled*.

Preference | Description |
|---|---|
Name | The name of the A/B test group |
Control Group | Indicates whether this A/B test group is the control group; |
Description | A description of the A/B test group |
% of Target Group | Indicates the probability, a participant is assigned to this A/B test group; |
Target URL List | List of the URLs which the test content renders; Important for the TestObjectClickedEvent; Note This function is not available in all versions. It had been deactivated while a defect had drawn this nonfunctional. |


The test content of any A/B Test group can be freely assigned.

Each set of assignments can be a collection of content components, page variants and promotions.

Be aware that content has got own target groups.

When assigning content to an A/B Test, the A/B Test group is becoming a target group of the promotion, component or page variant.

Therefore the shop manager has to make sure the content has no other target groups assigned as well. Otherwise the A/B Test might be in conflict with another target group of the content.

Promotions assigned to the control group must have at least one additional target group, e.g., "Everyone", "Registered Customers", "Unregistered Customers", etc. If the promotion has only the control group as target group assigned, then it is not visible on the storefront at all. It must be pointed out that this target group is set within the channel at the promotion itself.

Promotions assigned to a test group should not have additional target groups assigned. If an additional target group is assigned to the promotion, then it is also visible to storefront users that meet the criteria of this target group. But these users might not be participants of the test group.

Version Differences

Beginning with the introduction of the application aware component system in IS 7.4, components and page variant assignments are usually managed on application level in the Commerce Management application.

Switch to the application level and go to Marketing - A/B Testing. Here you can assign all components and page variants that are residing on application level.

However:

You cannot edit any other preferences of the A/B test or manage the promotion assignments.

You cannot see components and page variant that are assigned on application level on the channel level.

An A/B test follows a sequence of status changes:

It is also possible to **enable and disable** the test in each state.

(see also [Status Changes](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Concept-ABTesting-StatusChanges))

Before the Shop Manager can have a look at the A/B test summary and its resulting statistics, the system needs to aggregate the collected data first.

For this purpose the A/B testing feature provides two jobs, that need to run on a regular base:

Job name | Description |
|---|---|
UpdateTrackEvents | starts the collector which collects new event logs and calculates the statistical data also updates the A/B test status |
CleanupTrackEvents | deletes already processed event logs from the system; |

Note

The *UpdateTrackEvents* job only considers to process event logs, that belong to outdated sessions.

By default the maximum time-to-live (session.ttl) for a user session is 6 hours. This means only event logs of user sessions, that have been started 6 hours earlier are going to be processed.

In other words: **The statistical data takes at least 6 hours, before logged events are visible at the summary page!** (depending on when the job is scheduled to run)

(see [Buffer Time Logic](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Concept-ABTesting-BufferTimeLogic))

The results of an A/B test are displayed in the tab Summary.

The tab provides a filter to show either:

For every A/B test group the results are shown in plain numbers and in percentage values related to the whole A/B test.

Conversion results also show significance values that indicate whether a A/B test group result significantly differs from the result of the particular control group.

The T-Test is used for conversions with events that hold quantitative data. This means events that log data like the number of Items, that were ordered by a user or his order amount.

The χ²-Test (Chi-square) is used for simple binary events, like the triggering of the checkout event.

If the significance indicator is:

When hovering the mouse over the significance indicator, a tooltip shows the detailed significance value.

There is a limitation with this view.

The statistics of the live and edit systems are separated as everything else. To view the statistics of the productive system you have to log in the live system's Commerce Management application. Otherwise, you will only see the results from the edit system.

Furthermore, there is no aggregation of the statistics between multiple data centers. Each data center holds its own local statistics and must be viewed by the according Commerce Management application.

After an A/B test has been completed, a decision has to be taken whether the storefront content should be changed (i.e., a test group's content is made visible) or stay unchanged.

For this purpose buttons are enabled at the bottom of an A/B test's summary page when the test is in status *Completed*. Every test group provides a button *Set Content Online* whereas the control group provides a button *Keep Current Content*.

To change the contents of the storefront according to the appearance it to the test group:

To keep the storefront unchanged:

Once this finishing process is passed, the A/B test is marked as finished and the buttons of the groups are hidden. The summary page also gives information about the taken decision, decision maker and decision time:

A/B Tests must be replicated from the edit system to the live system. This is done by the usual object replication (Data Replication Tasks) in the Commerce Management application.

Note

When replicating, make sure you also replicate the necessary contents that are assigned to the A/B Test! **Content is not replicated automatically.**

The Design View does not take A/B testing into account. Therefore, it shows the storefront as if there is no A/B test active. A preview of the A/B test groups is available using the preview buttons in the *Action* column of the test's *Test Groups* tab (see [Test Groups](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Concept-ABTesting-TestGroups)).

The general A/B test functionality is located in several cartridges:

`ProcessPersonalizationGroup-DetermineDynamicPGID`

...)`ProcessPersonalizationGroup-DetermineDynamicPGID`

...)**User Groups:**

Sessions get assigned to user groups that represent the assigned A/B test and A/B test group:

`<ABTest-name>_<UUID>`

of the A/B test.`<ABTest-name>_<UUID>`

of the A/B test group.With these user groups it is easy to provide logic for the content visibility and logging events.

**Session Dictionary: **

Beside the user groups the session dictionary holds two entries:

`T_CurrentABTestGroupUUIDs`

- Holds all A/B test group UUIDs that are currently assigned to the session. `T_CurrentAssignedABTestGroupUUIDs`

- Holds all A/B test group UUIDs that are currently assigned to the session and have actually any content assigned to it. In contrast, `T_CurrentABTestGroupUUIDs`

also holds A/B test groups that have no content assigned. Furthermore, the pipeline `ProcessABTesting-CheckABTestMode`

checks a session dictionary value called `T_ABTestMode`

. It determines if there are at least existing any potential A/B tests suitable for the current session. It is a general switch you can use to circumvent unnecessary A/B test processing if there are no A/B tests at all.

Each cartridge has the possibility to register its own events, calculators and conversions.

The properties scheme always follows the notation:

intershop.marketing.abtest.<calculator|event|conversion>.<unique name for registration>.*

The following examples illustrate the definition of two implemented calculators: Count and TTest.

Each implementation should extend the ABTestCalculator.

The default properties are located in *bc_marketing.properties*.

**format:**

intershop.marketing.abtest.calculator.<calculator registry name x>.class = <qualified java class name> //mandatory intershop.marketing.abtest.calculator.<calculator registry name x>.column.<sql placeholder x> = <field name x> //only, if SQL terms in calculator class use placeholders for the database columns intershop.marketing.abtest.calculator.<calculator registry name x>.column.<sql placeholder y> = <field name y or x> //only, if SQL terms in calculator class use placeholders for the database columns

`<calculator registration name x>`

- The registration name of calculator x.`<qualified java class name>`

- The complete qualified name of the real class for this calculator`column`

properties are only mandatory, if the calculator defines placeholders in its SQL-terms.`<sql-placeholder x/y>`

- If the calculator needs dynamic SQL-fields, these are represented by these placeholders. These are used at the SQL-terms inside the calculator class.`<fieldname y/x>`

- Intermediating field name to match the placeholder with a SQL-field at the event or conversion definition.# Calculator: Count ## counts events intershop.marketing.abtest.calculator.count.class = com.intershop.component.marketing.capi.abtest.calculators.ABTestCalculatorCount # Calculator: T-Test ## for more complex value conversions, calculates significance of sum-value intershop.marketing.abtest.calculator.ttest.class = com.intershop.component.marketing.capi.abtest.calculators.ABTestCalculatorTTest ## extends "Count and Sum" class, therefore also its placeholder "columnsum" must be defined: intershop.marketing.abtest.calculator.ttest.column.columnsum = SumValue intershop.marketing.abtest.calculator.ttest.column.columnsumsqu = SumValue

In the example above, the SQL-terms in the Java class contain two different placeholders: `{columnsum}`

and `{columnsumsqu`

}

In this scenario both of them will temporarily be replaced by the intermediate fieldname `SumValue`

to match the placeholders with corresponding database columns that are defined at the corresponding event and conversions definition.

The Java class representation defines 3 aspects:

The following example of the calculator Count, just counts the occurrences of event entries.

public Map<String, String> getSQLFields() { HashMap<String, String> map = new HashMap<String, String>(); map.put("Count", "count(*)"); return map; } public int parameterCount() { return 0; }

The method `getSQLFields()`

returns a map consisting of unique keys (SQL names) that are representing the "statisticsmarkers", and a corresponding SQL term, that is appended to the SELECT statement internally.

The SQL term does not have any placeholders. Therefore the method `parameterCount`

returns 0.

The result of each term is stored at the `ABTestStatistics_AV`

table with the name format:

`event-marker`

or `event-currency-marker`

→ `"OrderCreatedEvent-USD-Count"`

`preevent-postevent-marker`

or `preevent-postevent-currency-marker`

→ `"TestObjectViewedEvent-ItemsOrderedEvent-Sum"`

public Map<String, String> getSQLFields() { HashMap<String, String> map = new HashMap<String, String>(); map.put("Count", "count(*)"); map.put("Sum", "sum(nvl({columnsum}, 0))"); // sums up the values of the database column defined by the placeholder map.put("TTSumSqu", "sum(power(nvl({columnsumsqu}, 0), 2))"); // takes the square root of the placeholder and sums it up. return map; } public int parameterCount() { return 2; }

As with the counting, here the statisticsmarker `Sum`

is hanged as marker at the back of the event name or conversion.

However, since the contents of a particular field needs to be added up, a corresponding SQL term is formed. Because at this point it is not yet known which database field will be taken particularly, a placeholder is used, which appears in curly brackets `{columnsumsqu}`

.

This placeholder gets a field name, that is defined at the properties file.

In the event and conversion definitions this field name is required to match it with a specific database field. In this example a `2`

for `parameterCount`

is returned. It represents the count of all different placeholders inside of all SQL terms of this calculator.

Note

**Make sure, the SQL names (statisticmarkers) are unique for each calculators SQL term!**

Otherwise the results of different calculators may sum up, if the same event or conversion-combination was used.

Create methods to use the result of such calculators in the template's output:

<isset scope="request" name="myValue" value="#TestGroup:TestStatistics:Calculation:Formula("Count"):Absolute("CheckoutEvent")#">

The Java method `getFormula(String calculatorRegistrationName)`

returns the instance of the wished calculator.

Here a Java Method `getAbsolute()`

is used to get the value from the database into the variable `myValue`

, which can be used in the ISML template:

public Object getAbsolute(String key) { return this.getStatistics().getAttribute(key + "-Count"); }

You can specify any method you want to read and process the data.

It is recommended to create methods to calculate the significance values of conversion results.

We use the χ²-Test (Chi-Square) for simple count conversions and the T-Test for more complex conversions like sum-values.

The available events and executed calculators are part of the configuration. The configuration can be overridden globally.

Each cartridge has the possibility to register its own events, calculators and conversions.

The properties scheme always follows the notation:

intershop.marketing.abtest.<calculator|event|conversion>.<unique name for registration>.*

The default properties are located in *bc_marketing.properties*. ( *\bc_marketing\staticfiles\share\system\config\cartridges\bc_marketing.properties*)

**format:**

intershop.marketing.abtest.event.<event registration name x>.type = <used calculator> intershop.marketing.abtest.event.<event registration name x>.column.<database column x> = <used field name of calculator> //only, if SQL terms in calculator class use placeholders for the database columns intershop.marketing.abtest.event.<event registration name x>.column.<database column y> = <used field name of calculator> //only, if SQL terms in calculator class use placeholders for the database columns

`<event registration name x>`

- The registration name of the event x. An event can store multiple data at once.`<used calculator>`

- The appropriate calculator registration name for processing the results.`"column"`

properties are are only mandatory, if the chosen calculator defines placeholders in its SQL terms.`<database column x/y>`

- The column from the database that contains the data to be processed.`<used field name of calculator>`

- The field name from the calculator definition, to match the data of the database column with the SQL placeholders# Checkout ## simple event count intershop.marketing.abtest.event.CheckoutEvent.type = count # OrderCreated ## event count and sum up of MoneyValue column (also currency) // an event is automatically also currency aware, if the logging function references a currency intershop.marketing.abtest.event.OrderCreatedEvent.type = countAndSum intershop.marketing.abtest.event.OrderCreatedEvent.column.MoneyValue = SumValue # ItemsOrdered ## sum of DoubleValue column (also currency aware) intershop.marketing.abtest.event.ItemsOrderedEvent.type = sum intershop.marketing.abtest.event.ItemsOrderedEvent.column.DoubleValue = SumValue

The available conversions, used events and executed calculators are part of the configuration. The configuration can be overridden globally.

**format:**

intershop.marketing.abtest.conversion.<conversion registration name x>.type = <used calculator> intershop.marketing.abtest.conversion.<conversion registration name x>.preConditionEvent = <used pre event> intershop.marketing.abtest.conversion.<conversion registration name x>.postConditionEvent = <used post event> intershop.marketing.abtest.conversion.<conversion registration name x>.column.<database column x> = <used field name of calculator> //only, if SQL terms in calculator class use placeholders for the database columns intershop.marketing.abtest.conversion.<conversion registration name x>.column.<database column y> = <used field name of calculator> //only, if SQL terms in calculator class use placeholders for the database columns

`<conversion registration name x>`

- The registration name of the conversion x. A conversion stores multiple data at once.`<used calculator>`

- The appropriate calculator registration name for processing the results.`<used pre event>`

- The event registration name to form the precondition.`<used post event>`

- The event registration name to form the post condition.`"column"`

properties are are only mandatory, if the chosen calculator defines placeholders in its SQL terms.`<database column x/y>`

- The column from the database that contains the data to be processed.`<used field name of calculator>`

- The field name from the calculator definition, to match the data of the database column with the SQL placeholdersintershop.marketing.abtest.conversion.viewed2clicked.type = chiSqu intershop.marketing.abtest.conversion.viewed2clicked.preConditionEvent = TestObjectViewedEvent intershop.marketing.abtest.conversion.viewed2clicked.postConditionEvent = TestObjectClickedEvent #(also currency aware) //a conversion is automatically also currency aware, if the post-condition event is currency aware (see above) intershop.marketing.abtest.conversion.viewed2ordercount.type = chiSqu intershop.marketing.abtest.conversion.viewed2ordercount.preConditionEvent = TestObjectViewedEvent intershop.marketing.abtest.conversion.viewed2ordercount.postConditionEvent = OrderCreatedEvent #([also] currency aware) intershop.marketing.abtest.conversion.viewed2orderamount.type = ttest intershop.marketing.abtest.conversion.viewed2orderamount.preConditionEvent = TestObjectViewedEvent intershop.marketing.abtest.conversion.viewed2orderamount.postConditionEvent = OrderCreatedEvent intershop.marketing.abtest.conversion.viewed2orderamount.column.MoneyValue = SumValue

Here you can see the relations between Conversion, Event and Calculator. Also the meaning of the SQL placeholder and the database column is depicted.

Events are logged while a participating user is using the system.

Events are stored at the database table **ABTestEvent**.

By default it provides the following fields:

You need to make sure an event is triggered along with the desired conditions and for all related assigned A/B test groups. It should be logged directly to the database without using the ORM layer to prevent massive overhead caused by this layer (caching and so on).

To make an event currency aware, just pass over the current used currency when logging the event.

There are several starting points for logging behaviors.

On default most of the events are logged only once in a row, others are only logged once at all and some are logged every time.

The used pipelets with the logic to log these events are:

Conversions do not need any triggers. It is enough to define the pre- and post-event in the properties.

At the collecting process the statistics collector checks for each definition if the conditions are fulfilled.

**Database content:**

ABTest

ABTest_AV → for DeactivationTime; see [Deletion Logic ("DeactivationTime")](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Concept-ABTesting-DeletionLogic)

ABTestEvent

ABTestGroup

ABTestGroup_AV → for BufferTime; see [Buffer Time Logic](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Concept-ABTesting-BufferTimeLogic)

ABTestGroup_PA → for pagelet assignments

ABTestStatistics

ABTestStatistics_AV → for the statistical results; see [Concept - AB Testing#UpdateTrackEvents](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Concept-ABTesting-UpdateTrackEvents)

(DynamicPGID) → for the activation and deactivation of the PGID Provider; see [Concept - AB Testing#Page Caching (via PGID Provider)](https://intershop.atlassian.net/wiki/pages/resumedraft.action?draftId=1759449631#Concept-ABTesting-PageCaching(viaPGIDProvider))

(UserGroups) → for A/B test target group-user group (`<ABTest-name>_<UUID>`

) and A/B test group-user groups (`<AB>_<UUID>`

)

**File system content:***[component]\staticfiles\share\system\config\cartridges\<component>.properties* - see [Calculator definition ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Concept-ABTesting-Calculatordefinition)and [Concept - AB Testing#Event and Conversion definition](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Concept-ABTesting-EventandConversionDefinition) - bc_marketing is the component for the default A/B test configuration*[component]\staticfiles\cartridge\localizations\abtests_<lang-code/description>.properties* - see [Concept - AB Testing#Localization](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Concept-ABTesting-Localization) - bc_marketing is the component for the default A/B test configuration

The statistics collector is a Java class that:

Basically this is done by the `AbstractConversionEventStatisticsCollector`

in package `com.intershop.component.marketing.capi.abtest.collectors`

implementing `ABTestEventStatisticsCollector`

.

If the functionality of the collecting process should be customized, it is recommended to extend the `AbstractConversionEventStatisticsCollector`

.

The collector gets configured and executed by the pipelet `ExecuteABTestStatisticsCollectors`

that runs every time one of the both jobs are started.

Every user has his/her own session. Every event that gets logged from this user belongs to this session. Sessions can either time out (user is showing no more activity) or exceed its time-to-live (user is active constantly and after some time the session has reached its maximum lifetime).

In order to provide correct conversion statistics, only the events of sessions can be calculated that are not active any more and therefore cannot trigger any more events.

Because no one knows exactly when a session is not in use any more, the worst case has to be assumed. In this case the session gets terminated explicitly after the session time-to-life (session.ttl property - default value 6 hours) has passed.

**The BufferTime represents the date and time of the collection process minus the session time-to-live. Hence it is the latest time for newly created sessions, which are are closed or terminated at collection time for sure.**

On Event-log processing only events of sessions are considered that have logged the first event before this BufferTime. This ensures that events of active sessions do not get processed only partially.

The latest BufferTime gets stored at the ABTestGroup_AV table for future event processings.

Only events of sessions that logged their first event (in best case on session creation) before the current calculated BufferTime, are considered to be processed.

On the other side the old BufferTime is taken into account to prevent already processed events getting calculated twice.

The newly calculated values are aggregated and stored to the database table ABTestStatistics_AV.

`event-marker`

or `event-currency-marker`

→ e.g., `OrderCreatedEvent-USD-Count`

`preevent-postevent-marker`

or `preevent-postevent-currency-marker`

→ e.g., `TestObjectViewedEvent-ItemsOrderedEvent-Sum`

The old BufferTime is used to delete all events of sessions that logged their first event (on session creation) before this time. On this way it is assured, that only already calculated events get removed from the database.

The Summary page of the A/B test result statistics is grouped into three main categories.

The structure of the A/B test summary page is defined at the ISML template ABTestSummary_52 in cartridge *bc_marketing*. Over here the main structure is an ISModule tag called `<issummaryline>`

:

<ismodule template = "marketing/ABTestSummaryLine_52.isml" name = "summaryline" attribute = "displaynamekey" attribute = "statisticskey1" attribute = "statisticmarker1" attribute = "statisticskey2" attribute = "statisticmarker2" attribute = "calculator1" attribute = "calculator2" attribute = "summarygroup" attribute = "type" attribute = "currency" attribute = "isimportant" >

Each row of the statistics is defined by one `<issummary>`

tag. Here is the parameter documentation:

All parameters and values are case sensitive.

Parameter | Description |
|---|---|
ISText key without prefix of the displayed name of the row; | |
statisticskey1 | the name of an event (eventname) or conversions (preevent-postevent) |
statisticmarker1 | (optional) which marker shall be used to return the first statisticskey values |
calculator1 | which calculator shall be used for the first key depending on its definition of the event/conversion |
statisticskey2 | (optional) only mandatory when summarygroup='average' or 'averageinpercent' |
statisticmarker2 | (optional) which marker shall be used to return the second statisticskey values |
calculator2 | (optional) only mandatory when using statisticskey2: |
summarygroup | has effect on representation and calculation |
type | has effect on representation and calculation |
currency | (optional) the currency object to get the currency aware values for statisticskey1 and 2 |
isimportant | (optional) if defined and 'true' the row shows up on most important view |

When a result row is about to render, the ISML template ABTestSummaryLine_52 collects the data, percentage values and significance values (only for conversions) from the calculators and displays each A/B test group in a separate column.

The status of each single ABTest is updated every time only on these events:

Either:

Until one of this is happening, the **status in the Commerce Management application will still show the old value.**

As long as the current time has not reached the defined *Start Date* and Time of an A/B test, the A/B test stays in status *Pending Start*.

It is highly recommended to change content and A/B test group definition only in this phase.

Removing content while it is still in use by active users of the A/B test group, might cause inconsistent behavior for these users.

The status is automatically changing to *Running* when the *Start Time* is reached (and the status gets updated) and stays as long as either the *End Time* or the *Maximum Participants allowed* value is not reached.

New sessions are considered to get assigned to the A/B test now and events are monitored.

When one of the ending criteria is reached (and the status gets updated), the status changes to *Closed*.

Now the assignment process is closed and only the still active sessions are monitored until the session time-to-life (`session.ttl`

of *webadapter.properties* in *share\system\config\cluster*) runs out.

With every run of the UpdateTrackEvents or CleanupTrackEEvents job, each closed A/B test is checked for events of sessions that did not pass the `session.ttl`

yet.

If no active assigned session can be retrieved any more, the A/B test is turned to status *Completed*.

To prevent faulty system behavior on user side, a simple logic is implemented to prevent A/B tests and A/B test groups from being deleted while assigned users might still be active.

If the Shop Manager tries to delete an A/B test or A/B test group a check is performed that provides the following criteria:

or

`session.ttl`

property.To provide the second check, the `ABTestPO.java`

needs a modification of its generated `setEnabled(Boolean aBoolean)`

method.

Every time the enabled flag is changing, the mapped extensible object attribute `DeactivationTime`

of A/B test is set or removed.

In order to prevent overwriting of the modification by the code generator the *@generated* tag needs to be removed.

Special case: When the A/B test is generated, it needs to get temporarily enabled in first place. Otherwise a deactivation will not be recognized by the `setEnabled(Boolean aBoolean)`

method, as the enabled flag is not yet initialized.

**Workaround**: A Shop Manager can still change the start date/time to a future time, so the A/B test will get the status *Pending Start* again and can be deleted now.

The A/B test is always aware of the current participant count in real time. In scenarios with application server clusters this has to be ensured centrally by the database without running an elaborate SQL statement each single time.

To solve this the system utilizes the "Number Series" or "Sequences" function of databases. These sequences provide a consistent stream of IDs. Intershop configured the sequence to provide single numbers incremented by 1 each. The cache on database side and application server side must be set to 0. So every new participant triggers a new request for a number increment at the database and returns it to the requesting server.

This way the system works fail-save if a server might crash.

The sequence is configured as `NumberSeriesProvider`

in the `ABTestMgr`

class.

The assignment happens in the pipeline `ProcessABTesting-RetrieveABTestGroups`

.

When a new session is arriving or the context has changed (e.g., at login/logout), the system checks first for running and enabled A/B tests that are matching the assignment of the target groups.

If so, a user is eligible to participate in these A/B tests.

Pipelet `AssignABTestToSession`

:

For each found A/B test the system checks at first for a browser cookie.

See [Cookies ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Concept-ABTesting-Cookies)to see its specification.

The system restores the A/B test assignment out of this cookie, if possible, and logs a new ABTestSessionCreatedEvent.

If no cookie is found, the usual assignment process is started.

The second responsibility of the assignment process is the check for the determination of the end criteria.

If the end date or maximum participants allowed is reached, it sets the A/B test status to *Closed*.

Both, the pipeline and the pipelet support an optional parameter `TestGroupUUIDParams`

where particular A/B test group UUIDs can be reached in that the session explicitly shall be assigned to. The principle is the same as with the cookie, except for the dash.

The participant ratio is a probability value from 0 to 1 (0% to 100% in Commerce Management application view).

The toss up of the user participation is a simple randomized value, that is compared to the participant ratio.

If the value is smaller, the user participates; if larger, does not participate.

The A/B test group ratio is a probability value from 0 to 1 (0% to 100% in Commerce Management application view).

The toss up of the group assignment is a simple randomized value, that is compared to the A/B test group ratios, that are distributed accordingly over the field from 0 to 1.

General Rule:

Content is always visible as long as no `PageletVisibilityFilter`

prompts the content management system to hide the content.

Every element of content (component or page variant) runs through a content visibility management system to check if an element shall be visible to a user or not.

The `CompoundPageletVisibilityFilter`

calls every implemented filter (here: `PageletABTestGroupVisibilityFilter`

in conjunction with `PageletUserGroupVisibilityFilter`

) and asks if at least one of them permits or denies the visibility.

The A/B test filter checks each content element regarding the assigned A/B test group.

If the content piece is assigned to the control group, it only denies the visibility to users of the other A/B test groups.

If the content piece is assigned to an other A/B test group, it denies the visibility, as long as the user is not assigned to the corresponding A/B test group.

In other words:

Denial by any filter leads to the hiding of the content and the Shop Manager has to make sure the content does not conflict with other A/B test groups or other Intershop features.

When assigning content to an A/B test group the A/B test group becomes the target group of the content.

The visibility of promotions is regulated by the promotions itself. The promotion has to be accessible, and the customer assigned to the related A/B test group, this check returns true.

The localization of the A/B test summary page is done via ISTEXT.

To provide a simple usability, the ISML template *ABTestSummary_52.isml* provides a parameter `displaynamekey`

for the ISMODULE-tag `<issummaryline>`

:

<issummaryline displaynamekey ="<ISTEXT-key without prefix>" [...] summarygroup ="<summary group>" <!-- among other things it defines the prefix --> [...] >

The displaynamekey is an [ISTEXT-key](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1754628275/Concept+-+Localization) (without prefix) which is located at *abtests_<lang-code>.properties* and *abtests_description.properties ([component]\staticfiles\cartridge\localizations\)*.

For the standard A/B test configuration the cartridge *bc_marketing* is the containing component.

Each key has a defined format:

### statistics ## total values # abtest.statistic.total.<eventname[x]> # where [x] represents "1" for the first value of the event, "2" for the second value and so on abtest.statistic.total.OrderCreatedEvent1 = Orders abtest.statistic.total.OrderCreatedEvent2 = Orders Value ## conversions # abtest.statistic.conversion.<preevent[x]>.<postevent[y]> # where [x] and [y] represent "1" for the first value of the event, "2" for the second value and so on abtest.statistic.conversion.TestObjectViewedEvent1.OrderCreatedEvent1 = Test Object Viewed \u21D2 Orders abtest.statistic.conversion.TestObjectViewedEvent1.OrderCreatedEvent2 = Test Object Viewed \u21D2 Order Value ## average values # abtest.statistic.average.<numerator>.<denominator> # where <numerator> and <denominator> can be of type "event[x]" or conversion "preevent[x]_postevent[y]" # with [x] and [y] representing "1" for the first value of the event, "2" for the second value and so on abtest.statistic.average.ItemsOrderedEvent1.OrderCreatedEvent1 = Average number of Items per Order abtest.statistic.average.OrderCreatedEvent2.OrderCreatedEvent1 = Average Order Value abtest.statistic.average.TestObjectAppliedEvent1_OrderCreatedEvent1.OrderCreatedEvent1 = Orders that applied a Test Object abtest.statistic.average.TestObjectAppliedEvent1_OrderCreatedEvent2.TestObjectAppliedEvent1_OrderCreatedEvent1 = ... their average Value ## general phrases abtest.statistic.general.notYet = Not Yet

Because every event can hold multiple data (like count and value), each part-event of a key has got an index starting with 1 (e.g., `OrderCreatedEvent1`

means the count; `OrderCreatedEvent2`

means the value).

Every key needs the prefix `abtest.statistic.`

followed by the content group.

The prefix and content group is added automatically to the displaynamekey parameter of `<issummaryline>`

. However, the "general" content group is a special group which can be addressed on various other places.

It is needed to make sure the *abtest_description.properties* are maintained to provide comprehensive key descriptions.

The PGID (Personalization Group ID) is a global Intershop concept to handle different groups of web caching scenarios.

In short: Each session gets a PGID based on several factors like the login status, user groups and also the A/B test group assignments.

Each PGID has its own web cache and is served by the Web Adapter separately.

Usually a session gets its PGID after hitting the storefront the first time. However, due to usergroup related test content that must be shown immediately to new sessions at the initial storefront view, A/B testing uses the PGID provider to boost up caching functionality.

If the PGID provider is active, the Web Adapter calls a special pipeline to calculate the PGID before a new session will be served with the initial page. This way the correct PGID will be provided right from the beginning.

Every time an A/B test is created, changes status and/or time, or is deleted, it must be ensured that a DynamicPGID object is created, maintained or removed separately for this A/B test.

A DynamicPGID expects the **start date** and **end date** and an informal entry for the origin (here: **"by ABTest: " + UUID**):

It needs to be set to the corresponding dates:

For each A/B test the user is eligible for, the system sets a cookie. The name is preceded by "ab-", followed by the UUID of the particular A/B test.

This cookie can hold either of two mainly different contents.

The cookie lifetime is set to end ca 3 months (90 days) after the end time of the particular A/B test. Doing so guarantees a buffer time if the Shop Manager later on decides to extend the running time of the A/B test.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.