---
id: '5cfe75aefa210a420b702683b6ffbf03'
title: 'Managing Page Cache'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3280M9'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:25.818544+00:00'
---
# Managing Page Cache

Using the Page Cache Settings manager, channel administrators control the page cache behavior of the channel storefront. This includes, in addition to the general page cache activation, the following settings:

-
Keyword-based cache invalidation and deletion,

- Cache index-based cache invalidation and deletion,
-
Complete cache invalidation and deletion.


Note:

The tasks described in this section are performed in the context of a sales channel.

## Setting Page Cache Options

-
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Preferences.
This displays the Preferences overview page.
-
Select Page Caching.
This displays the Page Cache Settings manager.
-
Edit the settings as required.
The following options are available:
Table 1. Channel-specific page cache options Option Description Maximum age of static content Allows for setting the maximum time after which static content (such as images) is invalidated automatically. Page caching Allows for generally activating the page cache for the channel storefront. Page cache keyword processing Enables the keyword-based page cache invalidation and deletion. Storefront pages marked with specific keywords can selectively be invalidated, and later removed from the cache. This option should only be enabled if the templates for your channel have been assigned specific keywords. Page cache full text indexing Allows to index all cached pages. It is then possible to invalidate all pages that contain given keywords. -
Click Apply to save your settings.
Otherwise, click Reset to discard your changes.

## Invalidating Page Cache

-
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Preferences.
This displays the Preferences overview page.
-
Select Page Caching.
This displays the Page Cache Settings manager.
-
Optionally, specify keywords for a selective cache clearing.
Note:Selective page cache clearing requires keyword processing and/or full-text indexing enabled.
-
Click Invalidate.
This either completely clears the page cache, or, if set, selectively removes the pages that contain the specified keywords.