---
id: '5d07777ecb4ffafe6de073c3730a18e0'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2A9883'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:40:26.322244+00:00'
---
Note

This migration guide applies for 7.10.31.2 and 7.10.26.11-LTS.

The Responsive Starter Store provides functionality that can automatically trigger a click on a specific clickable element on the rendered page. This functionality is for example required to retrigger the *Add to Wish List* interaction after an anonymous user has to log in to add a product to the wish list.

This functionality works via a URL hash/fragment navigation that is used as a selector for elements with that specific CSS class. Since this is a very generic approach, it can be used to trigger any clickable element on a page that can be selected via a CSS class by a matching URL fragment.

<server>/INTERSHOP/web/WFS/inSPIRED-inTRONICS_Business-Site/en_US/-/USD/ViewProduct-Start?SKU=201807181&CategoryName=videoconferencesystems&CatalogID=presentation-conferencing#share-label

This could lead to unintended interactions that might harm the security impression of the web site.

To still support the intended functionality it is not necessary to provide such a generic CSS class selector-based approach. Therefore, this functionality has been changed and requires adjustments in project customizations if the existing functionality was used intentionally.

The underlying functionality was changed in *a_responsive/app_sf_responsive/staticfiles/cartridge/static/default/js/navigation.js*.

Elements that should be clickable are usually given a specific CSS class, e.g. `add-to-wishlist_THE-PRODUCT-SKU`

:

<button type="submit" class="btn add-to-wishlist <isprint value="#CssClass#"/> add-to-wishlist_<isprint value="#ProductBO:SKU#"/>"

With the changed functionality, such elements require a specific `data-url-fragment-navigation`

attribute with the value used in the fragment navigation:

<button type="submit" class="btn add-to-wishlist <isprint value="#CssClass#"/>" data-url-fragment-navigation="add-to-wishlist_<isprint value="#ProductBO:SKU#"/>"

A marker to search for places in the ISML templates that build on this functionality is `TargetURLFragment`

.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.