---
id: '5dce5a5a64cd5f7db90dc8f5c59441b8'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/30268Q'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:38:19.656484+00:00'
---
The are several independent jobs that reset spent budgets of customers (users) for the selected period. Currently there are five jobs available:

In the previous version, all customers of the system were processed individually within one job run. Especially in environments with multiple channels and lots of customers/users within the channels, the performance of the job sometimes dropped dramatically. To improve the performance and stability of this job, the underlying code base has been reworked completely.

| Term | Description |
|---|---|
| ICM | Intershop Commerce Management |
| SMC | Intershop System Management |
| Job | A process in ICM which can be triggered manually or automatically via scheduling in SMC. It performs tasks that, among other things, improve the performance of the ICM system, see |

Out-of-the-box the jobs are available once for the whole system.

They now can be created for different domains (channels).

The pipeline has three start nodes: *Start*, *Start_ResetByDomain* and *Start_deprecated*. *Start_ResetByDomain* and *Start_deprecated* are available from ICM 7.10.38.9, 7.10.37.2, 7.10.32.12 and 7.10.26.21.

For further details see the following sections.

This start node *Start* starts the new reworked job that will process all customers/users in the system without any domain context.

This start node *Start_ResetByDomain* starts the new reworked job only for the domain the job exists in.

It requires the customers to be stored in the related anonymous domain. For example, for domain "inSPIRED-inTRONICS_Business-Site" the customers are fetched from "inSPIRED-inTRONICS_Business-Anonymous".

This start node *Start_deprecated* starts the old job as it was before the rework has taken place. This can still be used as an alternative.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.