---
id: '5e66e0c750c6be0d4a3ac50157ce6032'
title: 'ISML Tag'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2479N9'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:10.567436+00:00'
---
`<ISSET>`

can be used to define and set a user-defined variable.

The first occurrence of `<ISSET>`

in a template declares and sets the variable, there is no other special tag needed for declaration. In case the variable already exists, `<ISSET>`

resets it to the specified value.

The special attribute `scope`

is available to determine the scope of the user-defined variable. The `scope`

is required and can be either `request`

(default) or `session`

.

**Session** scope

The scope *session* means that the variable is accessible to all templates during a particular storefront session. The lifetime of a session variable ends with a session. A session variable can be used in expressions and is identified by its simple name. Values can now be of any type, not just Double and String.

Note

Non-serializable objects stored at session scope are not be written to the database when the session is made persistent.

<isset value = "( {String} | {ISML expression} )" name = "{simple name}" scope = "( request | session )" >

The following example shows how `<ISSET>`

is used to define and initialize a variable named `color`

. The value of `color`

is the string `#A0CC99`

.

<isset scope="request" name="color" value="#'#A0CC99'#">

In the next example, if a variable was already defined by a former `<ISSET>`

tag (first line), a second `<ISSET>`

resets the value of the variable (second line):

<isset scope="request" name="counter" value="#0#" > <isset scope="request" name="color" value="#counter + 1#">

Finally, the examples below illustrate the usage of the scope attribute:

<!-- the value goes to the session --> <isset scope="session" name="foo" value="bar"> <!-- the value goes to the pipeline dictionary --> <isset scope="request" name="foo" value="bar">

`scope`

This attribute is required.

`scope = request | session`


The default value is `request`

. Specifies the scope of a user-defined variable. In case of request scope, the value is stored to the pipeline dictionary. In case of session scope, the value is stored to the session.

`name`

This attribute is required.

`name = simple name`


Specifies the name of a user-defined variable. Mind the following rules for naming user-defined variables:

`value`

This attribute is required.

`value = ISML Expression`


Specifies a value to be stored in the variable. Value can be of any type.

Note

Non-serializable objects stored at session scope are not be written to the database when the session is made persistent.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.