---
id: '5fd0aa306ddb3769b1ed69695ce90d0e'
title: 'Managing Category/Product Links of Classification Catalogs'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3233T4'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:24.679143+00:00'
---
# Managing Category/Product Links of Classification Catalogs

Category links and product links relate a catalog category to specific products or to other catalog categories. Category links and product links may have different business semantics and can be used for different purposes. These differences are expressed by different link types. For details about the link types, see [Category Links and Product Links](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/concept_category_links_and_product_links.html). Category links and product links can be sorted manually.

## Defining Category/Product Links

To define category links or product links:

-
Navigate to the category level at which you want to work.
Select the intended management context from the context selection box, then select Catalogs | Catalogs. Then click the catalog and category names until you reach the intended category level.
-
Click the icon in the row of the category you intend to edit.
This opens the Standard Product Catalog dialog.
-
Change to the Links tab.
This displays all category links and product links already defined. The lists can be filtered by link type.
-
In the intended section (Product Links | Category Links), click Assign.
The Link Type dialog is displayed.
-
Select a link type (radio button) and click Next.
For product links, the product list view is displayed. The checkboxes for products to which a link has already been defined are grayed out. For category links, the available catalogs are displayed. Select a catalog and click Next to display the available categories. The checkboxes for categories to which a link has already been defined are grayed out.
-
Locate the product or category intended to act as the link target, select the corresponding checkbox(es), and click OK.
The selected categories or products are now displayed in the corresponding section (Product Links | Category Links) on the Links tab of the Standard Product Catalog dialog.

## Sorting Category/Product Links

To sort category links or product links:

-
Navigate to the category level at which you want to work.
Select the intended management context from the context selection box, then select Catalogs | Catalogs. Then click the catalog and category names until you reach the intended category level.
-
Click the icon in the row of the category you intend to edit.
This opens the Standard Product Catalog dialog.
-
Change to the Links tab.
This displays all category links and product links already defined.
- Select the checkboxes for the links that you want to sort manually.
-
Use the arrow buttons to rearrange the product links.
The display order is changed immediately.