---
id: '60174c39a144545bb1b1a3be30311d42'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/289K35'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:40:34.361041+00:00'
---
Default configuration of messaging is changed to JGroups

Replace old dependency versions of Gradle Tools 2.11.* with 2.11.9

See [Public Release Notes - Gradle Tools - Version 2.11](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1811759208/Public+Release+Notes+-+Gradle+Tools+-+Version+2.11)

In case the scm-version plugin is not well configured, the ivy publishing process will now fail with the error `Invalid publication 'ivy': revision cannot contain '/'`

.

Please correct your configuration, depending on your project style guide, e.g. for often used branch pattern:

scm { prefixes { stabilizationPrefix = 'stabilization' featurePrefix = 'feature' hotfixPrefix = 'hotfix' bugfixPrefix = 'bugfix' prefixSeperator = '/' } ... }

All cartridge properties (e.g. *bc_mail.properties*) have been moved into *src/main/resources*. This means the deployment cannot override or exclude these files anymore. Please validate your *deploy.gradle* files and remove the according section. It is possible to override the configuration depending on your needs within your projects (e.g. */staticfiles/cartridge/config/your.properties).*

In case your deployment extensions refer to standard logback configurations, you need to adapt the location.

Old Location | New Location | Release | Hint |
|---|---|---|---|
bc_pricing/staticfiles/share/system/config/cartridges/logback-bc_pricing.xml | bc_pricing/staticfiles/cartridge/logback/logback-bc_pricing.xml | 7.10.2.2 | In release 7.10.1.8 the file was moved to |
bc_basket_service/staticfiles/share/system/config/cartridges/logback-bc_basket_service.xml | bc_basket_service/staticfiles/cartridge/logback/logback-bc_basket_service.xml | 7.10.2.2 | In release 7.10.1.8 the file was moved to |
bc_contract/staticfiles/share/system/config/cartridges/logback-bc_contract.xml | bc_contract/staticfiles/cartridge/logback/logback-bc_contract.xml | 7.10.6.1 |

Since 7.10.14.0 Intershop provides a new tool for database preparation and migration - [dbprepare](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1905716178/Guide+-+7.10.14.0+DBPrepare+Replaces+DBMigrate+and+DBInit). During tests of migration to 7.10.24.0 performance problems of dbmigrate with MSSQL Databases occured. Please prefer dbprepare instead of dbinit and dbmigrate to avoid long running database migrations in the future.

If your system was prepared using DBInit (and optionally migrated using DBMigrate) you have to run a DBMigrate before the first run of DBPrepare. Afterwards only DBPrepare should be used for database migration.

Beginning with ICM 7.10.22.1 it is possible to update to Oracle driver 19. However, the JDBC drivers version 12.2.0.1 and above are affected by (non-public) bug 30964068 which may cause failure of the DBMigrate process. See [Oracle Support Document 2689134.1](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocumentDisplay?id=2689134.1) for more details.

We recommend to [keep using version 12.1.0.2](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1917322711), until this bug is fixed in the main line drivers. If, for some reason, you are required to use a more recent driver, see [Support Article - Apply Patch 30964068 to Oracle's JDBC Driver](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1917352730/Support+Article+-+Apply+Patch+30964068+to+Oracle%27s+JDBC+Driver) for information on how to update your Oracle driver.

Configuration files should be moved to a configuration project and *"sites"* files should be moved to the sites project. See *"responsive_config"* for a configuration project and *"responsive_sites"* as an example for a sites project in *a_responsive. *These projects contain the configuration or sites files and a deployment script.

Cartridges should not contain files for folders outside the cartridge folder.

In a future version it is required to use a site or configuration project. Furthermore a cartridge must be self contained.

Configuration support to enable HTTP2 protocol and Apache insights with 'mod_status' are prepared. Support to enable both features with deployment exists for Linux only.

Add the following lines to the file *httpd/bin/envvars* with your deployment to enable both features:

ENABLE_HTTP2=true ENABLE_STATUS=true

The default configuration for the 'mod_status' module restricts access to the host only.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.