---
id: '60656998b3d7210e15dc38098234a208'
title: 'Public Release Note'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/312U98'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:07.099465+00:00'
---
# Introduction

Welcome to the Intershop Commerce Management PAYONE Service Connector. The Service Connector adds PAYONE payment methods to your Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) installation.

This document provides important product information, including version information and dependencies. It also outlines the basic setup and configuration steps.

This release and the accompanying documentation are valid for the following combinations of software versions:

| Intershop | PAYONE Service Connector |
|---|
| ICM 12.0+ | 8.0.0+ |

The next table provides information about the cartridges included in the package. Not all of these cartridges are required.

| Cartridge | Description | Required |
|---|
*ac_payment_payone* | Includes all base functionality and business logic which is used. | |

The PAYONE Service Connector 8.x is based on the PAYONE Payment API 3.4.

## Preconditions

- The PAYONE Service Connector requires an installed Intershop Commerce Management system. See version numbers above.
- Using the PAYONE Service Connector requires a dedicated payment provider contract with vendor PAYONE.

Make sure to contact PAYONE to negotiate and sign your payment provider contract.

## Supported Application Types

The PAYONE Service Connector can be used for the following application types:

| Application Type | Application Type ID | Description |
|---|
| Progressive Web App | ` intershop.REST` | Progressive Web App endpoint for B2C/B2B channel Supported payment methods: - Credit Card
- PayPal
- Invoice
- PostFinance Card
- SOFORT Banking
- iDEAL
|

# Feature Overview

This section summarizes important features delivered with the PAYONE Service Connector.



## Payment Methods

The PAYONE Service Connector adds the following payment methods to your Intershop Commerce Management system:

| Payment Method Type | Details |
|---|
| PayPal | PayPal |
| Online Payment | SOFORT Überweisung |
| Credit Card | Credit Card payment with:- Visa
- Mastercard
- American Express
- Carte Bleue
- Diners Club
- Discover
- JCB
- Maestro International
This payment method uses PAYONE iFrames to enable compliance with PCI-DSS. It supports 3DS version 1.0 and 2.0. |
| Account Based Payment | Invoice |
| Online Payment | iDEAL |
| PostFinance Card |

Intershop's customers can safely use Intershop Commerce Management in PCI certified environments without impacting their certification status. Furthermore, Intershop Commerce Management provides features and configurability needed to implement all the requirements of the PCI Compliance program.

## Payment Management Options

The following table lists all options that are available for payment transactions.

| Operation | Description |
|---|
| Capture | Request for settling the payment. This action is only available if the corresponding payment method's capture mode is set to *manual*. |
| Cancel | Request for abandoning a payment settlement. This action is only available if the corresponding payment method's capture mode is set to *manual*. |
| Refund | Option to return (parts of) the capture amount. |

There are certain limitations regarding the implemented capabilities, see [Restricted Capabilities](#PublicReleaseNote-PAYONEServiceConnector8-Restrictions).



# Setup

The customization image for the PAYONE Extension is available in the Intershop public repository.

## Helm Declaration of Extension for Deployment

Add customization to helm values:

icm-as:
customizations:
payone:
repository: intershophub/icm-as-customization-payone:<TAG>
...
environment:
CARTRIDGE_LIST: "ft_icm_as ft_payone"

## Using Docker Compose to Start the Server with the Extension Image

Before starting ICM with the PAYONE extension, ensure that all required services, the MSSQL database, and the web server are running.

Modify the compose file to specify which cartridges the ICM should load. This is done by setting the

`CARTRIDGE_LIST`

environment variable on the application server:

version: "3.8"
services:
customize-payone:
image: icm-as-customization-payone:<TAG>
volumes:
- customizations:/customizations
...
appserver:
depends_on:
- customize-payone
...
environment:
# ... more environment variables ...
# Example cartridge list. Please adapt to your requirements.
CARTRIDGE_LIST: "ft_icm_as ft_payone"
...



When the application server is started, a DBPreparation process will run to configure the PAYONE payment services. Once this process is complete, you can log in to the back office. Under Services, the PAYONE payment services should be available for use.

To use the PAYONE payment services, configure the PAYONE payment service with the required credentials, PSP communication URLs, and other configuration parameters.

## Customize the Connector

To customize the PAYONE Connector, it is necessary to create a customization project for the payment connector.

To add the customization image for the PAYONE Connector to your project, add it to the dependencies of your customization.

To achieve this, perform the following steps:

Register the customization image in your main *build.gradle.kts*:

val icmDockerRegistry = "docker.tools.intershop.com/icm/intershophub"
// specified in gradle.properties
val payoneConnectorVersion: String by project
intershop {
projectConfig {
modules {
// ... other modules ...
register("payone") {
dependency.set("com.intershop.services.payment_payone:payone:${payoneConnectorVersion}")
image.set("${icmDockerRegistry}/icm-as-customization-payone:${payoneConnectorVersion}")
testImage.set("${icmDockerRegistry}/icm-as-customization-payone:${payoneConnectorVersion}")
}
}
}
}
subprojects {
// ... other settings ...
plugins.withType<JavaPlugin> {
dependencies {
// ... other dependencies ...
cartridge(platform("com.intershop.services.payment_payone:versions:${payoneConnectorVersion}"))
implementation(platform("com.intershop.services.payment_payone:versions:${payoneConnectorVersion}"))
}
}
}

Add dependencies to the PAYONE feature to your project's feature definition (e.g., *ft_myproject/build.gradle.kts*):

dependencies {
// base on ICM AS
cartridgeRuntime ("com.intershop.icm:ft_icm_as")
// ... more dependencies ...
// PAYONE Connector
cartridgeRuntime ("com.intershop.services.payment_payone:ft_payone")
}


intershop_docker {
// ... other configuration ...
developmentConfig {
appserverAsContainer = true
cartridgeList.set(setOf("ft_myproject"))
testCartridgeList.set(setOf("ft_mytest"))
}
}

Define *payoneConnectorVersion* in your *gradle.properties*:

...
payoneConnectorVersion = <TAG>
...

- Start your application server in development mode:

For more information on managing the artifacts, refer to:




# Configuration

## Transaction Status Notifications

The PAYONE platform uses an asynchronous way to notify the ICM of changes to a transaction. We call these "*notifications*".

A REST endpoint to where PAYONE should send the notifications to is provided by the connector. Its default location is `https://<host>:<port>/INTERSHOP/rest/WFS/<Site>/-/payment/payone/notifications`


This URL must be set as the TransactionStatus URL in the PAYONE Shop Portal (see following section).

All incoming notifications are checked for authenticity to prevent fraudulent requests. This includes checking the source IP and user agent of the notification requests. By default, notifications are expected to be sent as HTTPS POST request from an IP address starting with **185.60.20** and user agent "**PAYONE FinanceGate**". Both values can be configured using the following keys:

| Configuration Key | Description | Default Value |
|---|
`intershop.payment.payone.notification.ip_prefix` | IP address prefix of incoming notification request. | `185.60.20` |
`intershop.payment.payone.notification.user_agent` | User agent of incoming notification request. | `PAYONE FinanceGate` |

If an incoming notification is rejected, a corresponding WARN message is logged.



## Adjusting Firewall Settings

Adjust your firewall settings to allow bidirectional HTTP and HTTPS traffic between Intershop Commerce Management and:

[api.pay1.de/post-gateway/](http://api.pay1.de/post-gateway/)[secure.pay1.de/client-api/](http://secure.pay1.de/client-api/)

## Applying UI-Based Configuration

The PAYONE Service Connector requires some post-deployment configurations in Organization Management and Commerce Management.

Please consult the PAYONE documentation for information on how to set up your payment portal.

### Configuring the PAYONE Shop Portal

In addition to the standard PAYONE shop portal configuration described in the PAYONE documentation, you should also configure the TransactionStatus URL.

| Explanation | Image |
|---|
PAYONE Merchant Interface (PMI): [https://login.pay1.de/](https://login.pay1.de/) 1. Log in with your username and password. A secure code will be sent to your e-mail address. | |
| 2. Insert the security code from the e-mail and complete the login. | |
3. Click *Configuration*. 4. Click *Payment Portals*. 5. Select your portal and click *E**dit*. | |
6. Click *Extended*. 7. Enter a valid Success URL. 8. Enter a valid Back URL. 9. Enter a valid TransactionStatus URL. (Set the TransactionStatus URL to point to the notification resource. Assuming there is no URL rewriting, it should look similar to this: `https://<host>:<port>/INTERSHOP/rest/WFS/<Site>/-/payment/payone/notifications` .) 10. If not present yet, generate a key. 11. Click *Save*. | |

### Enabling and Configuring a Payment Service

Check [Recipe - Enable a Payment Service](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822573547/Cookbook+-+Payment#Cookbook-Payment-Recipe-EnableaPaymentService) in [Cookbook - Payment](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822573547/Cookbook+-+Payment) for detailed instructions on enabling and configuring a payment service.



Payment method-specific settings:

| Name | Description |
|---|
| Merchant-ID | Your merchant account's merchant ID as provided by PAYONE. |
| Portal-ID | Your merchant account's portal ID as provided by PAYONE. |
| Sub-Account-ID | Your merchant account's sub account ID as provided by PAYONE. |
| Portal-Key | Your merchant account's portal key as provided by PAYONE (unencrypted). |
| Environment | Switch between productive and test environment (*Test* is set as default). Select *Live* on the live system. Keep *Test* for the test environment. |
| Base URL | PAYONE Gateway URL. |
| Capture | This describes the capture mode (*Manual*, *Auto*). If *Timed* is used you must set a Capture Time in Hours. For all online payment methods (SOFORT Überweisung, iDeal and Post-Finance Card) capture must be set to *Auto*. |
| Bank Account Check | If checked, the bank account check is enabled. This is currently not used by any of our supported payment methods. |
| Submit Order Details | If checked, product line items are transmitted to PAYONE. |
| Use PAYONE Mandate Management | Enables the usage of PAYONE mandate management. This is currently not used by any of our supported payment methods. |
| Download mandate as PDF | Enables the download of PAYONE mandate as PDF. This is currently not used by any of our supported payment methods. |
| Ask For CVC | Ask for Card Security Code (CVC/CSC/CVV/CID). Available for Credit Card. |


You can see the required PAYONE values below the *API-Parameter* tab of your PAYONE shop portal.

### File-Based Configuration

A part of the payment method configuration is not meant to be changed in the Commerce Management application and is available through server properties. These properties are read using the configuration framework and as such can be overridden for an application type. They can be overwritten within your custom cartridges *<cartridge_name>/src/main/resources/cartridges/<cartridge_name>.properties* or by specifying properties files under *<cartridge_name>/src/main/resources/resources/<cartridge_name>/config*.

For more information on the configuration framework, check [Concept - Configuration](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/47859113552/Concept+-+Configuration) and [Cookbook - Configuration](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1755495298/Cookbook+-+Configuration).

#### Supported Currencies

The PAYONE Service Connector requires the following settings for the currencies you want to support:

| Property | Description | Value |
|---|
| intershop.payment.Payone_CreditCard.currencies | Defines which currencies are configurable for PAYONE Credit Card. Default: all. | comma-separated list, e.g., EUR, USD |
| intershop.payment.Payone_IDeal.currencies | Defines which currencies are configurable for PAYONE iDEAL. Default: EUR. | comma-separated list, e.g., EUR |
| intershop.payment.Payone_Invoice.currencies | Defines which currencies are configurable for PAYONE Invoice. Default: EUR. | comma-separated list, e.g., EUR |
| intershop.payment.Payone_PayPal.currencies | Defines which currencies are configurable for PAYONE PayPal. Default: all. | comma-separated list, e.g., EUR, USD |
| intershop.payment.Payone_PostFinance_Card.currencies | Defines which currencies are configurable for PAYONE PostFinance Card. Default: EUR & CHF. | comma-separated list, e.g., EUR, CHF |
| intershop.payment.Payone_Sofort.currencies | Defines which currencies are configurable for PAYONE SOFORT Überweisung. Default: EUR. | comma-separated list, e.g., EUR |



#### Credit Card iFrame Styles

For the configuration of the styles, the credit card payment method can be adjusted with the following properties:

| Property | Values | Description |
|---|
| payment.payone.creditcard.<field>.size | Positive number | Determines the size of the input field. Default = 4 |
| payment.payone.creditcard.<field>.maxlength | Positive number | Determines the length of the input field. Default = 4 |
| payment.payone.creditcard.<field>.width | String | Determines the width of the iframe that holds the field. The unit of the width has to be specified the same way as it would be specified in a CSS style (e.g., 60px). |
| payment.payone.creditcard.defaultStyle.height | String | Determines the height of the iframe that holds the field. The unit of the height has to be specified the same way as it would be specified in a CSS style, Default = 34px |
| payment.payone.creditcard.defaultStyle.width | String | Determines the width of the iframe that holds the field. The unit of the width has to be specified the same way as it would be specified in a CSS style. Default = 250px |
| payment.payone.creditcard.defaultStyle.input | String | Default CSS style to be used with text fields. |
| payment.payone.creditcard.defaultStyle.select | String | Default CSS style to be used with select fields. |

<field> identifies which PAYONE credit card field is affected by the property. Supported values are cardtypes, cardnumber, cardcvc2, cardexpiremonth, cardexpireyear, e.g., payment.payone.creditcard.cardcvc2.width.

#### Supported Countries

A list of supported countries can be defined for each payment method. A comma-separated list of ISO 3166 ALPHA 2 country codes (also see PAYONE API documentation) is valid. The value '*' can be used if there is no restriction.

| Property | Default |
|---|
intershop.payment.Payone_Sofort.countries | AT,DE,CH,NL |
intershop.payment.Payone_IDeal.countries | NL |
intershop.payment.Payone_PostFinance_Card.countries | CH |
intershop.payment.Payone_PayPal.countries | * |
intershop.payment.Payone_Invoice.countries | * |
| intershop.payment.Payone_CreditCard.countries | * |

See [Supported Countries and Currencies](#PublicReleaseNote-PAYONEServiceConnector8-SupportedCurrencies) for further information about payment method specifics.

## Localization

The PAYONE Service Connector provides English and German localization for payment-specific input field labels, error messages, etc.

You can overwrite the existing localizations in the back office within your custom cartridge*.*

For details about localization, see:

# Data Handling

The following table describes transmitted data by the PAYONE Service Connector from ICM to PAYONE during the payment process:

| Description | PAYONE Payment Methods |
|---|
|
| Invoice | Credit Card | Paypal | Sofort | Ideal | **PostFinance Card** |
|---|
| Amount | The amount for the transaction | | | | | | |
|---|
| Currency | Currency code e.g. EUR/USD | | | | | | |
|---|
| Customer details (e-mail, first name, last name) | Customer e-mail, customer first name, and last name | | | | | | |
|---|
| reference (order id) | Order reference generated by the merchant | | | | | | |
|---|
| Address details (street, zip, city, country) | Invoice and shipping address details provided by the user (optional and configurable in back office) | | | | | | |
|---|
| de[line item details] | Array of product attributes, e.g. product name, value, discount, gift card (optional and configurable in back office) | | | | | | |
|---|
| bankcountry | Country of the bank | | | | | | |
|---|
| Credit card details | Card number, CVC, expiry date Sensitive data is handled via PayGate iframes only and is never stored at the merchant. | | | | | | |
|---|
| language | Language indicator to specify the language that should be presented to the customer | | | | | | |
|---|
| Browser information | Browser details such as javaEnabled, language, colorDepth, timezone, screenHeight, screenWidth, windowSize | | | | | | |
|---|

| Symbol | Description |
|---|
| Transmitted |
| Not Transmitted |
| Optional |

# Limitations

## Gross Price and Taxation Calculation

The PAYONE payment service requires a gross-based price and tax calculation. That is, the price type and the price display must be set to *gross*, and a gross-based taxation service must be enabled.


## Supported Countries and Currencies

Most of the payment methods included in this package are specific for certain countries or currencies.

| Payment Method | Supported Countries | Supported Currencies |
|---|
| iDEAL | NL | EUR |
| PostFinance Card | CH | EUR, CHF |
| SOFORT Überweisung | DE, AT, CH, NL | EUR |
| Invoice | * | EUR |
| PayPal | * | * |
| Credit card | * | * |


## Restricted Capabilities

**Cancel: **No "cancel" capability for iDEAL, PostFinance Card and SOFORT Überweisung implemented.

## Length of E-Mail Addresses

The length of e-mail addresses is limited to 50 characters on PAYONE side. Only 48 of these characters are usable, because the at sign (@) is being replaced by escape characters.

# Changelog

## Version PAYONE/8.2.1

- Declared the dependencies to cartridges providing the REST API.

## Version PAYONE/8.2.0

- PAYONE iDEAL does not use bank group selection anymore (buyers have to select the bank on the page they are redirected to).

## Version PAYONE/8.1.0

## Version PAYONE/8.0.0

- Migrated the connector to an ICM 12 customization (JDK 21, jakarta packaging)