---
id: '6245787b4601da7850ba0e967c6b67e3'
title: 'Managing Localized Texts'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32807B'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:25.269892+00:00'
---
# Managing Localized Texts

Managing localized texts involves:

-
Searching values for a given locale in an application of the current channel,

-
Editing existing values for a given locale in an application of the current channel,

-
Adding new translations for a given locale in an application of the current channel.


## Searching Localization Texts

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Localization | Localization Management.
This displays a list of all localization values of the default locale.
-
Select the intended locale and application, and click Apply.
This displays a list of all localization values of the selected application for the selected locale.
-
Specify the intended localization key and/or the intended localization value.
You can specify only parts of the key or value, for example to retrieve all texts that contain a specific word or that belong to a given context.
-
In the Type drop-down box, select the intended type.
Selecting All will retrieve all matching entries, whereas selecting Empty will retrieve those localizable texts that are currently not translated in the selected locale.
-
Click Find.
The search result is displayed in the list view.

## Editing Localization Texts

-
Search for the intended key.
For details, see
[Searching Localization Texts](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/operation_maintenance/topic_managing_localized_texts.html#task_pref_l10n_mgmt_search).Note:The displayed search result shows the default value for the selected locale as well as the value for the default locale.Make sure to select the entry type All. - For the entry to be modified, insert the new value in the Localization Value field.
-
Click Apply.
The new value is saved for the current channel and immediately available in the channel storefront.Tip:Clicking Reset instead of Apply clears the form and restores the previously saved state.

## Adding New Localization Texts

-
Search for the intended key.
For details, see
[Searching Localization Texts](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/operation_maintenance/topic_managing_localized_texts.html#task_pref_l10n_mgmt_search).Note:The displayed search result shows the value for the default locale.Make sure to select the entry type Empty. - For the entry to be translated, insert the translation in the Localization Value field.
-
Click Apply.
The new translation is saved for the current channel and immediately available in the channel storefront.