---
id: '629944e7858f4be1b54c8c655c9103de'
title: 'Concept - CMS'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/23A945'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:04.639572+00:00'
---
A configuration parameter definition is part of the content model development work done using Intershop Studio. The following content model artifacts can contain such elements:


Back Office | Intershop Studio | Model Element (in |
|---|---|---|
Page Type | Page Entry Point Definition | pageEntryPointDefinitions |
Include Type | Component Entry Point Definition | componentEntryPointDefinitions |
Page Variant Type | Pagelet Definition | pageletDefinitions |
Component Type | Pagelet Definition | pageletDefinitions |
Page/Component Template Type | Pagelet Definition | pageletDefinitions |
Slot Type | Slot Definition | slotDefinition |
View Context | View Context Type | contextObjectRelations |

Unlike other content model elements (e.g. Slot Definition) a configuration parameter definition is not referable. This means that you cannot create such definitions in one `.pagelet2`

file and refer to the definitions from a different content model file. The definition is always created in the context of one of the above-mentioned model artifacts.

Remember: a configuration parameter represents a leaf in the content composition tree. The meaning of a configuration parameter definition depends on how you use it in other Intershop development artifacts (like ISML templates & pipelines). It can either represent the actual content in the CMS, such as text, images, links and so on, or determine the behavior embodied by a pipeline.

**Attributes**

`localizable:`

Imagine a consumer channel that must support more than one language. Since configuration parameters can be presented as content to the consumer visiting the storefront, the parameters can also have a language-dependent value. Part of the model work is therefore to define which configuration parameter definition is language-depending and which ones are neutral.`multiple:`

If a configuration parameter can have more than one value, this attribute must be set to `true`

on the corresponding configuration parameter definition. When managing values for such a "multi-value" configuration parameter, the back office can include HTML markup to show a list element instead of a single line of text.`optional:`

If the presence of a configuration parameter value is not required at rendering time, this attribute must be set to `true`

. It must be set to `false`

if you want to enforce a configuration parameter to contain a value.`typeReference (alias Parameter Type Definition):`

Contains a qualified name that refers to a configuration parameter type instance defined in the same content model file or some place else.`visible:`

Influences the visibility of the configuration parameter inside the management application (i.e. back office). An invisible configuration parameter can get a default value by its defining configuration parameter definition. If set to `true`

, the management application renders management artifacts to show the configuration parameter. If set to `false`

, no parameter is shown. `true`

is the default.One might ask: why is it necessary to have a model element (i.e., configuration parameter type) only for describing another model element (i.e., configuration parameter definition)?

First, by doing so you can create new configuration parameter types for the features you need without changing existing code. Second, by using an *instance of* or *type* semantic you can make assertions that all configuration parameter definitions including their instances (configuration parameter) must fulfill.

**Attributes**

`valueHandler (alias Value Handler):`

This string value must contain a fully qualified name of a Java class implementing `c.i.c.pmc.capi.definition.pagelet.ParameterValueHandler`

. It therefore defines the way how a configuration parameter that is based on a In addition to that, binding of back office UI elements is based upon configuration parameter types. An assertion like that makes it possible to build a generic back office UI for managing configuration parameter(s) of content instances. All that is possible without fully implementing the management page of each individual content instance.

Such a UI element assignment is done using another EMF model instance called **UIDefinitionModel**. That model is clearly made for configuration parameter UI definition only. It should not be used for any other purpose.

<uidefinition:UIDefinitionModel xmi:version="2.0" xmlns:xmi="http://www.omg.org/XMI" xmlns:uidefinition="http://www.intershop.de/uidefinition/2010" name="MyConfigurationParameterTypeUIDefinition"> <configurationParameterTypeUIDefinitions referencedType="parametertype.pagevariationmeta.pagelet2-PageVariationMeta" editingTemplate="content/parameters/MetaConfigParameterInc" webForm="CookbookParameterTypes-MetaConfigForm" /> </uidefinition:UIDefinitionModel>

The above example has been taken from the * Cookbook *. It shows the binding of an editing template resource and a webform resource with the configuration parameter type

`parametertype.pagevariationmeta.pagelet2-PageVariationMeta`

. If such a binding for a configuration parameter type is missing or contains invalid resource references, an error message like `UI definition error for`

`[]`

is shown.A parameter value handler is the implementation of interface `c.i.c.pmc.capi.definition.pagelet.ParameterValueHandler<T>`

. It hides the complexity on how to transform value(s) of a `ConfigurationParameter`

for further processing. This processing includes updating configuration parameter database objects (see next chapter), the import/export framework, and rendering.

See recipe * Implementing a parameter value handler * for more details on the topic.

Additional parameters can be used to provide further metadata describing a configuration parameter definition. For instance, it can be useful to further describe a configuration parameter definition for storing a reference to a file from the shared file system using the file extension the selected file must have.

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?> <pagelet:PageletModel xmlns:pagelet="http://www.intershop.de/pagelet/2010" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns:core="http://www.intershop.de/core/2010" name="comp.common.SomeExample.pagelet2"> <pageletDefinitions name="comp.common.SomeExample"> <configurationParameterDefinitions optional="true" name="js_reference" typeReference="types.pagelet2-FileRef"> <parameterBindings xsi:type="core:ParameterValueBinding" name="FileExtension" value=".js" /> </configurationParameterDefinitions> </pageletDefinitions> </pagelet:PageletModel>

In the example, the configuration parameter definition named `js_reference`

contains the value `.js`

for parameter `FileExtension`

. The CMS framework allows only string-based values for additional parameters. There is no parameter value handler responsible for that kind of parameter.

Evaluation of a parameter value can be done anywhere the configuration parameter definition is accessible: that is, in the back office UI, during rendering and so on.

Only configuration parameter definitions have a database representation of type `c.i.c.p.capi.pagelet.ConfigurationParameter`

. New configuration parameter database objects (from now on just called *configuration parameters*) will be created lazily as soon as owning content instances are updated. This is done for every configuration parameter definition contained in the corresponding content model artifact. Check the * table * above (configuration parameter definition) to see to which content instances this rule applies.

Technically, all Java types extending `c.i.c.p.capi.pagelet.ConfigurationParameterCtnr`

are able to hold configuration parameters. The back office responsible for managing configuration parameters provides the necessary checks to support lazy parameter creation.

The above picture completes this [table](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Concept-CMS-ConfigurationParameters-TAB_ConfigurationParameterDefinition)by showing which type of content instances extend `ConfigurationParameterCtnr`

. Removing one of them also removes the contained configuration parameters.

When rendering a `ConfigurationParameterCtnr`

the CMS framework ensures that a `java.util.Map`

object will be placed inside the pipeline dictionary. The map contains key-to-value mappings that enable the ISML render template to access expected configuration parameters by name. From within the render template it is legal to access the value by name since the template is part of the model instance just like the configuration parameter definition.

One word of advice: if you choose to rename your configuration parameter definition, you also have to change your references within ISML or pipeline. Access to the configuration parameters map is always case-sensitive.

Example from FreeStyle.isml:

<div<isif condition="#isDefined(PageletConfigurationParameters:cssClass) AND (PageletConfigurationParameters:cssClass NE '')#"> class="<isprint value="#PageletConfigurationParameters:cssClass#">"</isif>> <isHtmlPrint value="#PageletConfigurationParameters:text#" mode="storefront"> </div>

The configuration parameters map provided by the CMS framework can be accessed using the pipeline dictionary key `PageletConfigurationParameters`

. On the result you can directly use the parameter name to get a hold of the parameter value. Implicitly, the responsible parameter value handler (taken from the configuration parameter type) has been invoked to decode the string-based value into whatever object is expected. The example above only shows access to string objects. Complex types like `MetaTagInfo`

(see recipe * Creating a Configuration Parameter Type *) allow further access.

<meta name="title" content="<isprint value="#PageletConfigurationParameters:metaInfo:Title#">" />

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.