---
id: '62d0adf1a06a0315228a4cdec69b51bc'
title: 'Release Notes - Intershop PWA'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3L0856'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:30:03.470886+00:00'
---
Intershop PWA 10.1.0 was developed and tested with Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) version ICM 14.0.1.
It will work with all versions from ICM 14.0.1 and later.
Other ICM versions may also work with some limitations, which are listed in the "CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS" sections.

PWA 10.1.0 with the feature toggle legacyEncoding enabled should work as well with ICM 11 and ICM 7.10.x (versions newer than 7.10.38.0 should work). The "CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS" sections list functionalities that are only available with ICM releases of the noted version or newer.

The PWA was developed and tested using Node.js version 22.22.0 LTS (including npm 10.9.4), which is the recommended version.

Intershop recommends using the PWA Helm Chart version 0.12.0 for PWA 10.1.0 deployments.

Features

display inventory supplier stock at product detail if available (#2051) (00827fb)

add paypal eligibility check on checkout payment page (86a1640)

add ICM base URL input to demo-server-up workflow (#2040) (d447874)

Intershop PWA 10.0.0 was developed and tested with Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) version ICM 14.0.1.
It will work with all versions from ICM 14.0.1 and later.
Other ICM versions may also work with some limitations, which are listed in the "CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS" sections.

PWA 10.0.0 with the feature toggle legacyEncoding enabled should work as well with ICM 11 and ICM 7.10.x (versions newer than 7.10.38.0 should work). The "CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS" sections list functionalities that are only available with ICM releases of the noted version or newer.

The PWA was developed and tested using Node.js version 22.22.0 LTS (including npm 10.9.4), which is the recommended version.

Intershop recommends using the PWA Helm Chart version 0.12.0 for PWA 10.0.0 deployments.

Features

replace Font Awesome icons integration with Bootstrap Icons integration (#1993) (d6b7501)

migration to Angular control flow (#1980) (d1cca79)

Inventory information is now fetched by a separate /inventories REST call instead of using the information fetched with the products REST call (see Migrations / From 9.1.0 to 10.0.0 for more details).

Intershop PWA 9.1.0 was developed and tested with Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) version ICM 14.0.1.
It will work with all versions from ICM 14.0.1 and later.
Other ICM versions may also work with some limitations, which are listed in the "CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS" sections.

PWA 9.1.0 with the feature toggle legacyEncoding enabled should work as well with ICM 11 and ICM 7.10.x (versions newer than 7.10.38.0 should work). The "CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS" sections list functionalities that are only available with ICM releases of the noted version or newer.

The PWA was developed and tested using Node.js version 22.17.1 LTS (including npm 10.9.2), which is the recommended version.

Intershop recommends using the PWA Helm Chart version 0.11.0 for PWA 9.1.0 deployments.

Features

use search select box (ng-select) for additional places, virtual scroll (#1797) (6848009)

Intershop PWA 9.0.0 was developed and tested with Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) version ICM 13.2.0.
It will work with all versions from ICM 13.2.0 and later.
Other ICM versions may also work with some limitations, which are listed in the "CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS" sections.

PWA 9.0.0 with the feature toggle legacyEncoding enabled should work as well with ICM 11 and ICM 7.10.x (versions newer than 7.10.38.0 should work). The "CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS" sections list functionalities that are only available with ICM releases of the noted version or newer.

The PWA was developed and tested using Node.js version 22.17.1 LTS (including npm 10.9.2), which is the recommended version.

Intershop recommends using the PWA Helm Chart version 0.9.3 for PWA 9.0.0 deployments.

Features

PayPal support via Intershop PayPal Complete Payments Service Connector (#1903) (467905f)

allow the usage of common tracking parameters in search pages (#1905, #1918) (4df3758)

prevent captcha timer from blocking app stability (#1938) (351e8d9)

prepend '#' to href for skip content link (#1935) (dc8f592)

refresh payment express buttons after basket recurrence changed (#1934) (67030b9)

BREAKING CHANGES

With the Intershop PWA 9.0.0 release, the SPARQUE configuration has been refined to allow for more granular control over individual SPARQUE features. SPARQUE features need to be explicitly enabled now via the new features configuration array in the SPARQUE configuration (see Migrations / From 8.0.0 to 9.0.0 for more details).

The Copilot integration was updated to work with a newer version of the Intershop Copilot for Buyers that returns different tool calls. For this reason a new compatible Copilot configuration has to be used.

The styling of the Intershop PWA was migrated to Bootstrap 5.3.8 (see Migrations / From 8.0.0 to 9.0.0 for more details). Detailed information on the individual migration steps and breaking changes can be found in the official Bootstrap 5 Migration Guide.

Intershop PWA 8.0.0 was developed and tested with Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) version ICM 13.1.2.
It will work with all versions from ICM ICM 13.1.2 and later.
Other ICM versions may also work with some limitations, which are listed in the "CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS" sections.

PWA 8.0.0 with the feature toggle legacyEncoding enabled should work as well with ICM 11 and ICM 7.10.x (versions newer than 7.10.38.0 should work). The "CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS" sections list functionalities that are only available with ICM releases of the noted version or newer.

The PWA was developed and tested using Node.js version 22.17.1 LTS (including npm 10.9.2), which is the recommended version.

Intershop recommends using the PWA Helm Chart version 0.9.3 for PWA 8.0.0 deployments.

Features

render CMS content pages in account context (#1909) (3add3bf)

Hybrid Approach: update Hybrid Approach documentation for ICM 13+ and PWA 8+ (#1798) (6a8d025)

BREAKING CHANGES

Hybrid Approach: To address token handling issues that occurred in Hybrid Approach scenarios, the loadUserByAPIToken action was changed to require a payload object with an optional apiToken as parameter (see Migrations / From 7.1.0 to 8.0.0 for more details).

Updated content projection selectors of InPlaceEditComponent from CSS classes to HTML attributes for better semantic clarity (see Migrations / From 7.1.0 to 8.0.0 for more details).

The cost center management enhancements require ICM 13.1.0 or newer that provides the new Cost Center REST API 2.0.0 that supports paging and search (see Migrations / From 7.1.0 to 8.0.0 for more details).

The order history listing enhancements require ICM 13.1.0 or newer that provides the extended Order REST API 1.8.0 that returns the needed paging info (see Migrations / From 7.1.0 to 8.0.0 for more details).

NGINX The OpenResty/NGINX image was updated to version 1.27.1.2. It includes the fixed LuaRocks package manager (version 3.12.0) so the lua-resty-redis-connector installation with luarocks was re-enabled.

The Intershop PWA now uses Node.js 22.17.1 LTS with the corresponding npm version 10.9.2 (see Migrations / From 7.1.0 to 8.0.0 for more details).

REMOVED: The Sentry client-side error monitoring integration was removed.

REMOVED: The Tacton product configuration integration was removed.

CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS

add account content includes (#1904) - icm-as-customization-headless:3.1.0

Intershop PWA 7.1.0 was developed and tested with Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) version 13.0.0.
It will work with all versions from ICM 13.0.0 and later.
Other ICM versions may also work with some limitations, which are listed in the "CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS" sections.

PWA 7.1.0 with the feature toggle legacyEncoding enabled should work as well with ICM 11 and ICM 7.10.x (versions newer than 7.10.38.0 should work). The "CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS" sections list functionalities that are only available with ICM releases of the noted version or newer.

The PWA was developed and tested using Node.js version 18.16.0 LTS (including npm 9.5.1), which is the recommended version.

Intershop recommends using the PWA Helm Chart version 0.9.3 for PWA 7.1.0 deployments.

Features

add "Approve" and "Reject" action buttons to approvals list (#1665, #1814) (1735145)

accessibility: indicate which categories/filters are selected (#1832, #1858) (b457427)

accessibility: wrap category navigation into <nav> element (#1834, #1853) (31a78ae)

accessibility: use skip content link component (#1824, #1838) (8c37714)

accessibility: add skip content link component (#1824, #1838) (09bb77e)

accessibility: screenreader announcements for checkout payment instrument form (#1846, #1851) (#1851) (dd75e41)

accessibility: add scope="col" to necessary table headers (a313cee)

accessibility: enhance myAccount and checkout page titles (fa2aadd)

accessibility: handle focus change after navigation (#1831, #1841) (63bd4d1)

accessibility: announce number of search results (#1839, #1847) (958d888)

Bug Fixes

Order history filters open unintended (#1866) (319a5ea)

no error message for unchecked terms & conditions in registration form (#1809) (57f7e09)

checkout "add payment instrument" submit is called twice (#1850, #1852) (2495dc0)

Intershop PWA 7.0.0 was developed and tested with Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) version 12.3.0.
It will work with all versions from ICM 12.3.0 and later.
Other ICM versions may also work with some limitations, which are listed in the "CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS" sections.

PWA 7.0.0 with the feature toggle legacyEncoding enabled should work as well with ICM 11 and ICM 7.10.x (versions newer than 7.10.38.0 should work). The "CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS" sections list functionalities that are only available with ICM releases of the noted version or newer.

The PWA was developed and tested using Node.js version 18.16.0 LTS (including npm 9.5.1), which is the recommended version.

Intershop recommends using the PWA Helm Chart version 0.9.3 for PWA 7.0.0 deployments.

Features

re-implementation of the search box with suggestions (#1760) (0af1efa)

use provided certificate files for NGINX container with SSL for development (5338cc0)

introduce ng-select box for cost center / cost center manager selection (#1785) (425903e)

Design View: make whole Design View wrapper action bar clickable (#1802) (829d96a)

Sparque: add Sparque products search service and data mapper (#1760) (e26683e)

Sparque: add Sparque suggestions service and data mapper (#1760) (11ab5b5)

Sparque: introduce Sparque configuration and Sparque API Service (#1760) (9e00f42)

Bug Fixes

fixed positioning of the mini basket drop down to the bottom right (#1789) (d788288)

products list carousel paging buttons not working after accessibility improvements (#1786) (d8462e6)

Design View: make components in main navigation Design View compatible (#1802) (40f21a7)

add note regarding configurable theme feature configuration short coming (3a879d2)

add table of contents (ToC) to all concepts and guides (#1783) (96d9590)

use lists in tables for multiple entries in Formly documentation (#1782) (c4c004f)

Code Refactoring

introduce new 'ProductCompletenessLevel.Base' for product suggest tiles (23ee86e)

make the CategoryImageComponent a standalone component (a388f86)

make the ProductImageComponent a standalone component (828bad5)

BREAKING CHANGES

Sparque: The ProductsService has a changed parameter set for its searchProducts() method and needs to be integrated via newly introduced ProductsServiceProvider.

Sparque: The SuggestService has a changed result format and is now included in the effects via newly introduced SuggestionsServiceProvider.

The SearchBoxComponent was re-implemented as an Angular standalone component with the capability to show more suggestions.

An additional ProductCompletenessLevel.Base was introduced that is used as the new default in the ProductContextFacade.

The CategoryImageComponent was changed to an Angular standalone component.

The ProductImageComponent was changed to an Angular standalone component.

The Intershop PWA 6.0.0 has been developed and tested with Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) version 12.3.0.
It will work with all versions from ICM 12.3.0 and later.
Other ICM versions may also work with some limitations, which are listed in the "CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS" sections.

The PWA 6.0.0 with the feature toggle legacyEncoding enabled should work as well with ICM 11 and ICM 7.10.x (versions newer than 7.10.38.0 should work). The "CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS" sections list functionalities that are only available with ICM releases of the noted version or newer.

The PWA has been developed and tested using Node.js version 18.16.0 LTS (including npm 9.5.1), which is the recommended version.

Intershop recommends using the PWA Helm Chart version 0.9.3 for PWA 6.0.0 deployments.

From PWA 6.0.0, we support semantic versioning.

Features

migrate Cybersource integration to Microform v2 (#1773) (371fd77)

The Intershop PWA 5.3.0 has been developed and tested with Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) version 12.3.0.
It will work with all versions from ICM 12.3.0 and later.
Other ICM versions may also work with some limitations, which are listed in the "CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS" sections.

The PWA 5.3.0 with the feature toggle legacyEncoding enabled should work as well with ICM 11 and ICM 7.10.x (versions newer than 7.10.38.0 should work). The "CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS" sections list functionalities that are only available with ICM releases of the noted version or newer.

The PWA has been developed and tested using Node.js version 18.16.0 LTS (including npm 9.5.1), which is the recommended version.

Intershop recommends using the PWA Helm Chart version 0.9.3 for PWA 5.3.0 deployments.

Features

configurable SSR metrics granularity (#1747) (bbca251)

change SSR metrics from Gauge to Counter (#1747) (8215728)

styling improvement for swatch (image) filters (fd63a8b)

consider only 'true' product labels and select the first (7f7299b)

use correct punchout REST API headers for cXML and OCI punchout (#1746) (eb607cc)

fetch updated Redirect-URL before redirecting (#1743) (ea74674)

don't send shipping method in POST items request when ICM runs in single-shipment-mode (#1739) (5b7c997)

remove evaluation of both punchout type transfers to prevent false error messages (#1737) (b41b52c)

Bootstrap carousel slide content overflow when changing slides (0c8cf50)

improved styling of loading spinner (loading animation placement for long containers, z-index) (d10ac9a)

SSR rendered pages with status code 404 or 503 should be returned instead of serving expired pages from the NGINX cache with status 200 (#1732) (2966ea8)

do not shortly display the product image twice on PDP (16b6afa)

display orders on cost center details page (003413f)

double header display in checkout (SSR) (#1721) (4fd1165)

password check for user email update (#1722) (4d5e69a)

remove double slashes in cost center REST call (#1723) (d84dffd)

eslint-rule "no-intelligence-in-artifacts" also checks components of different themes (#1716) (e31a906)

Performance Improvements

load the main product image eagerly on PDP (#1717) (9326b29)

omit cost center details REST calls for lists (9acf72c)

The Intershop PWA 5.2.0 has been developed and tested with Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) version 12.0.0.
It will work with all versions from ICM 12.0.0 and later.
Other ICM versions may also work with some limitations, which are listed in the "CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS" sections.

The PWA 5.2.0 with the feature toggle legacyEncoding enabled should work as well with ICM 11 and ICM 7.10.x (versions newer than 7.10.38.0 should work). The "CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS" sections list functionalities that are only available with ICM releases of the noted version or newer.

The PWA has been developed and tested using Node.js version 18.16.0 LTS (including npm 9.5.1), which is the recommended version.

Intershop recommends using the PWA Helm Chart version 0.9.1 for PWA 5.2.0 deployments.

Features

support for cXML punchout self service configuration (#1683) (74bb9cf)

extend order list filter by buyer selection (#1697) (28d9846)

fast checkout payment (e.g. PAYPAL Express) (#1682) (fb5a0d6)

switch to ICM 12 resource ID encoding and provide a feature toggle for 'legacyEncoding' (#1704) (f7176c9)

extend logging for monitoring by OPS (#1685) (480447a)

introduce labelNoTranslate and titleNoTranslate flag to prevent Formly field label translation (4428c56)

make recently viewed products display lazy (#1654) (0a27c17)

The function encodeResourceID has been moved to a method encodeResourceId of the api.service, and it is now used to encode all dynamic resource IDs in any REST API call to ICM (see Migrations / From 5.1 to 5.2 for more details).

The Formly wrapper textarea-description was renamed to maxlength-description (see Migrations / From 5.1 to 5.2 for more details).

The ish-product-item-variations component has been refactored (see Migrations / From 5.1 to 5.2 for more details).

The productMaster property on the product view model has been removed. The master product should be individually retrieved.

The variations property on the product view interface was removed. Variations can now be retrieved via the product context facade or the shopping facade.

The ExternalDisplayPropertiesProvidersetup method was changed to no longer working with product data only but a combination of product and prices (see Migrations / From 5.1 to 5.2 for more details).

Pipes sanitize, makeHref and htmlEncode are renamed using an ish prefix (see Migrations / From 5.1 to 5.2 for more details).

The store action and method addBasketToNewOrderTemplate of the OrderTemplatesFacade have been renamed to createOrderTemplateFromLineItems and refactored slightly.

In preparation of the cXML punchout self service configuration, we switched from a hidden route parameter that conveys the punchout type context information to a URL query parameter (e.g., ?format=cxml). So customized routing within the punchout area needs to be adapted accordingly.

With Intershop PWA version 5.2.0, the rendering of our demo/example view contexts was disabled by default (see Migrations / From 5.1 to 5.2 for more details).

A few Stylelint rules have been changed and the .scss files have been adapted (see Migrations / From 5.1 to 5.2 for more details).

CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS

support for cXML punchout self service configuration (#1683) - ICM 12.2.0

extend order list filter by buyer selection (#1697) - ICM 12.1.0

fast checkout payment (e.g. PAYPAL Express) (#1682) - ICM 12.0.0 or ICM 7.10.41.3

The Intershop PWA 5.1.0 has been developed and tested with Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) version 11.7.0.
It will work with all versions from ICM 11.7.0 and later.
Other ICM versions may also work with some limitations, which are listed in the "CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS" sections.

The PWA should work as well with the latest ICM 7.10.38.28-LTS release and newer ICM 7.10.x versions. The "CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS" sections list functionalities that are only available with ICM releases of the noted version or newer.

The PWA has been developed and tested using Node.js version 18.16.0 LTS (including npm 9.5.1), which is the recommended version.

Intershop recommends using the PWA Helm Chart version 0.8.0 for PWA 5.1.0 deployments.

improve Google Tag Manager integration documentation (b68ab76)

clarify ICM required version documentation (#1574) (afab8cf)

BREAKING CHANGES

An empty 'NavigationDepth' value of the 'Static Content Page' component now defaults to '0' instead of no depth limitation, that resulted in the whole content page tree being fetched and saved to the state (see Migrations / From 5.0 to 5.1 for more details).

The feature toggle messageToMerchant was removed since the feature is controlled via back office configuration in ICM 11 (see Migrations / From 5.0 to 5.1 for more details and ICM 7.10 compatibility).

The orders API call now uses additionally the limit parameter (requires ICM 11.6), the deprecated page[limit] parameter will be removed soon.

The Intershop PWA 5.0.0 has been developed and tested with Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) version 11.7.0.
It will work with all versions from ICM 11.7.0 and later.
Other ICM versions may also work with some limitations, which are listed in the "CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS" sections.

The PWA should work as well with the latest ICM 7.10.38.28-LTS release and newer ICM 7.10.x versions. The "CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS" sections list functionalities that are only available with ICM releases of the noted version or newer.

The PWA has been developed and tested using Node.js version 18.16.0 LTS (including npm 9.5.1), which is the recommended version.

Intershop recommends using the PWA Helm Chart version 0.8.0 for PWA 5.0.0 deployments.

Switch to ICM 11 as required/tested version and - as default application.

Switch from the plain standard NGINX Docker image to an OpenResty Docker image that provides more flexibility to configure the underlying NGINX (see Migrations / From 4.2 to 5.0 for more details).

CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS

experimental Design View support for the PWA (within the Intershop Administration Portal) (#1462) - ICM 11.7.0

co-browsing support via Customer Engagement Center (#1475) - ICM 11.8.0

The Intershop PWA 4.2.0 has been developed and tested with Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) version 7.10.39.2.
It will work with all versions from ICM 7.10.39.2 and later.
Other ICM versions may also work with some limitations, which are listed in the "CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS" sections.

The PWA has been developed and tested using Node.js version 18.16.0 LTS (including npm 9.5.1), which is the recommended version.

Features

save language selection as cookie (#1447) (c2e43bb)

The Intershop PWA 4.1.0 has been developed and tested with Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) version 7.10.39.2.
It will work with all versions from ICM 7.10.39.2 and later.
Other ICM versions may also work with some limitations, which are listed in the "CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS" sections.

The PWA has been developed and tested using Node.js version 18.16.0 LTS (including npm 9.5.1), which is the recommended version.

The ishIntersectionObserver returns NotVisible status now too (see Migrations / From 4.0 to 4.1 for more details).

The two standard themes b2b and b2c where refactored in such a way that the b2c theme could be changed into a configurable theme (see Migrations / From 4.0 to 4.1 for more details).

The Intershop PWA 4.0.0 has been developed and tested with Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) version 7.10.39.2.
It will work with all versions from ICM 7.10.39.2 and later.
Other ICM versions may also work with some limitations, which are listed in the "CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS" sections.

The PWA has been developed and tested using Node.js version 18.16.0 LTS (including npm 9.5.1), which is the recommended version.

Features

introduce a general print styling, e.g. to nicely print to PDF (#1376) (94be193)

add product zoom functionality in fullscreen dialog (#1011, #1350) (c839353)

enhance modal dialog component with fullscreen and scrolling (#1350) (1de7672)

product notifications (price, in stock) (#1327) (c07edca)

add "Product List (REST)" CMS component (#1397) (dc5c9dc)

add title for (status) checkboxes (#1383) (9dafd3f)

add schematic to apply migration changes for formly 6 update (932cafa)

introduce account navigation grouping - used in b2b theme (#1331) (3334e77)

Bug Fixes

use ProductsListComponent for wishlist widget component (#1408) (3486687)

use ProductsListComponent for recently viewed items on PDP and recently viewed page (#1408) (5fbdfb6)

adapt Products List component to not display failed products (#1408) (ff4f2e7)

email and password confirmation fields should only validate the equality with its related input field (58aa313)

correct names and comments with spelling errors, update spell check dictionary with missing words (#1382) (8f36209)

prevent HTML input in the form field "name" for order templates and wishlists (#1385) (b990b3b)

load basket information on basket page when personalization status is determined (45f67c8)

correct dialog form submission with enter key (#1378) (b60e0a1)

remove deprecated SSR environment variable 'ICM_IDENTITY_PROVIDER' (#1373) (1f87684)

false error messages regarding JestMatchers in tests (#1371) (466283c)

Documentation

add Hybrid Approach development environment chapter (#1386) (416d6e9)

Code Refactoring

cleanup/remove obsolete/update TODO comments (e43c432)

replace deprecated formly field configuration properties (fad6075)

Angular 15: replace class-based route guards by functional guards (289e161)

Angular 15: rework translate loader on SSR after Angular 15 update (292d559)

BREAKING CHANGES

The TODO code cleanup removed some implementation fixes to work with ICM versions prior to 7.10.39.2.

Angular 15: Class-based route guards are replaced by functional guards (see Migrations / From 3.3 to 4.0 for more details).

Angular 15: ICM Translate Loader needs new configuration for LOCAL_TRANSLATIONS (see Migrations / From 3.3 to 4.0 for more details).

Angular 15: Angular 15 and dependencies update (removed Browserslist configuration, update TypeScript compiler target, Stylelint adaptions, Jest tests adaptions).

Intershop PWA development is now based on Node.js 18.15.0 with npm 9.5.0 and the "lockfileVersion": 3,.

All deprecated formly field configuration properties are replaced.

CHANGES THAT REQUIRE MORE RECENT ICM VERSIONS

product notifications (price, in stock) (#1327) - 7.10.40.1 (for adapted email templates only, REST functionality is already available in earlier versions)

product zoom functionality (#1350) - 7.10.40.1 (for 'ZOOM' image demo data, this is not required to use the functionality)

add "Product List (REST)" CMS component (#1397) - 7.10.40.1 (requires additional CMS Content Model component.common.productListRest.pagelet2 that could be copied to earlier versions as well)

PWA uses the ICM /token REST endpoint to retrieve user token, every anonymous user will get a anonymous user token, every identity provider has to configure the oAuthService with information about the token endpoint, before expiration the given token should be refreshed.

Changed the rendering of the ProductVariationSelectComponent and introduced additional product variation select rendering components (see Migrations / From 3.1 to 3.2 for more details).

ProductsService was changed to use an extended=true details and variations call. VariationAttribute model was cleaned up and extended (see Migrations / From 3.1 to 3.2 for more details).

The product label ribbon image is replaced with localized text and CSS styling.

The empty cart image is removed and replaced with localized text and CSS styling.

The active_catalog.png and budget-bar-indicator.png are removed and replaced with CSS styling.

update getting started, development and customization documentation (#1275) (f8eb9b9)

BREAKING CHANGES

We removed the not_available.png image and replaced it with an SVG image (without text inside the image) and adjusted file references (see Migrations / From 3.0 to 3.1 for more details).

We changed the default queryParamsHandling for product detail links via product image or product name component (see Migrations / From 3.0 to 3.1 for more details).

The validator equalToControl did not work properly. For that reason we removed it. Use the validator equalTo instead. Find more information in the method description in the special-validators.ts.

The footer.content localization key was replaced for most of its content by a CMS manageable content include.

Introduced double encoding of resource ids in REST API calls for user login (see Migrations / From 2.4 to 3.0 for more details).

Introduced the build variable SSR that is now used for all checks if the application is running in SSR or Browser context (see Migrations / From 2.4 to 3.0 for more details).

Jest upgrade to version 28, the jest-marbles package has been replaced by jasmine-marbles.

The @ngx-translate/http-loader has been removed from the dependencies.

The pagespeed module of NGINX has been removed without replacement.

We removed the unmaintained angular2-uuid library in favor of the standard uuid library (see Migrations / From 2.4 to 3.0 for more details).

Removed (deferLoad) directive and replaced it with loading="lazy" (see Migrations / From 2.4 to 3.0 for more details).

The cypress test files moved from cypress/integration folder to cypress/e2e. The cypress config file changed and also some scripts have been adapted to reflect the new config structure.

schematics: The cms schematic's noCMSPrefixing option has been renamed to cmsPrefixing with an inverted behavior.

adapt 'apiToken' cookie handling after ICM api token changes (#1105) (7e24ba1)

BREAKING CHANGES

For a working hybrid approach ICM 7.10.32.16-LTS or 7.10.38.6-LTS or newer is required. The changes in the PWA should not be incompatible with older ICM version if no hybrid approach is needed.

The method getFilteredProducts was moved from FilterService to ProductsService.

recently viewed products as extension (#1034) (d7a8613)

BREAKING CHANGES

Product prices are now fetched by separate productprices REST calls instead of using the information fetched with the products REST call.

Handling personalized REST calls for category and product data required some possibly breaking changes (see Migrations / From 2.0 to 2.1 for more details).

The recently viewed products functionality was moved into an extension (see Migrations / From 2.0 to 2.1 for more details).

The feature toggle 'advancedVariationHandling' has been removed. Use the ICM channel preference for 'Variations List View' now. (see Migrations / From 1.4 to 2.0 for more details.

The input parameter class was changed to cssClass for the following components: ish-basket-create-order-template,ish-lazy-basket-create-order-template, ish-lazy-product-add-to-order-template,ish-lazy-product-add-to-quote, ish-lazy-product-add-to-wishlist, ish-product-add-to-basket, ish-product-add-to-compare, ish-product-add-to-order-template, ish-product-add-to-quote, ish-product-add-to-wishlist. All uses of these components need to be adapted in custom code.

Our deprecated form components have been removed, use Formly to generate and maintain your forms. (see Migrations / From 1.4 to 2.0 for more details.

The SelectOption interface has been moved to the select-option.model.ts file of the core/model folder, the related import statements have been adapted.

The B2C theme default is renamed to b2c and the B2B theme blue is renamed to b2b and b2b is now used as the default theme (see Migrations / From 1.4 to 2.0 for more details.

cybersource creditcard save for later checkbox. (#925) (058533f)

add 'lang' property to 'html' tag (#926) (5828487)

add option to enable SSR only for crawlers in nginx (#899) (c826583)

Bug Fixes

CMSImageEnhancedComponent remove component CSS class from img tag (#943) (38124c7)

support sitemap locations for multiple servers (bbf98ce)

display a default promotion name if promotion messaging is disabled (#934) (67967c8)

use newest Bootstrap release 4.6.1 with own divide() function (#921) (13ce267)

make ICM sitemap files available via nginx (9574457)

BREAKING CHANGES

We no longer use @use 'sass:math'; and math.div(); in our .scss files but instead switched to the new Bootstrap default way using divide(). This is more a note to check your styling customizations for possible adaptions. Both ways should still work together and adaptions are not required.

remove b64u library and use native methods (#898) (440828a)

BREAKING CHANGES

The PWA no longer relies on the dependency to 'b64u' since no encoding and decoding Base64 is needed any more in SSR. In the browser native methods are used. If your custom code uses b64u in SSR you should not remove this dependency or use a polyfill like 'btoa-polyfill'.

The quoting feature was completely reworked to provide a better performance with growing numbers of users quotes and quote requests. It was changed to work with less necessary REST requests (e.g. by relying on improvements in the quoting REST API) and several known issues were fixed. Besides that the whole implementation was reworked with newer, improved implementation patterns of the PWA.

With the introduction of a new headless Application Type (intershop.REST) in ICM 7.10.21.0 the PWA default environment configuration was switched to the new headless 'rest' application in the ICM demo content. Because of this change the PWA now uses the ICM CMS content model and demo content of the new headless 'rest' application.

User management calls were adapted to match CMS REST API changes in ICM.

Deprecated exports were removed concerning the NgRx testing refactorings introduced in version 0.21.

notes on migrating to PWA with Angular 9 (#215) (4d1e806)

BREAKING CHANGES

Upgrade to Angular 9, follow the recommendations in the migration guide.

The feature toggle 'securityQuestion' and the related functionality has been removed.

The feature toggles 'captchaV2' and 'captchaV3' are obsolete. This is now configured via ICM Backoffice and fetched via 'configurations' REST call. The component 'ish-captcha' is replaced by 'ish-lazy-captcha' with a mandatory topic input for the captcha context to check whether it is activated or not.

extend ishServerHtml directive to apply default handling to 'javascript:' links and allow a callback function in combination with further link handling (8716834)

use ishServerHtml for header error-keys in error-message component (2e87448)

error-message component uses header error-key as fallback (b4f7ae9)

dynamic breadcrumb for quote-edit and quote-request-edit (5769cba)

provide preview image for social media sharing - add og:image to meta tags (#126) (52a1907)

display product labels in product lists (#73, #131) (7314bf0)

extended multiple theme support to control system icons (e.g. favicon), manifest.webmanifest and theme-color as well (#88, #100) (46e84ba)

schematics: create facade skeleton when creating an extension (c02d4d2)

Bug Fixes

quotes routerActiveLink on account menu (c95c31f, 5bf460c)

'submit quote request' and 'copy submitted quote request' from modal dialog should not navigate to my account (#112) (8039fe5)

"Add Quote to Cart" behavior changed to only route on success and hide the button on error (#51) (a70da64)

show quote item availability on quote detail page (#51) (788b6dd)

save quote request from modal dialog navigates to my account (#56) (e26d4e1)

missing product names in quote items listing (#111) (af71f23)

NOTE: To address the issue with trademarked content or content of questionable origin it was necessary to clean the complete GitHub repository resulting in a rewritten history. Because of that change it is advisable to work with a new clone of the repository.

NOTE: Release 0.16.1 is the first release that contains all necessary assets again to run "out of the box". Older releases will miss some referenced assets that had to be removed from an Open Source project.

enable company input fields when registration form is loaded

add wrong variation to cart from product tile after variation change

server-html-directive patch elements on input change

rework basket merge handling (ISREST-848)

navigate to checkout payment page if order creation is rolled back. (ISREST-853)

apply a consistent form grid width layout (ISREST-906)

display bucket surcharges on checkout cost summary widget (ISREST-904)

remove wrong 'Cancel' button styling in edit profile forms (ISREST-839)

multiple product-requests on category-page

display delivery times and shipping costs for eligible shipping methods (ISREST-869)

update quote request before submit if quote request has unsaved changes

also send currentPassword when changing user passwords

Performance Improvements

decouple content-pagelet-container for more efficient memoization

BREAKING CHANGES

The feature toggle 'captcha' was renamed to 'captchaV2' in contrast to the newly introduced 'captchaV3' option that could be used with the reCaptcha V3 service activated in ICM and the PWA.

To resolve naming conflicts for the upcoming removal of the container-component-pattern some containers and components were merged into simpler components.

Using NgRx artifacts in Angular components is now deprecated, use facades instead.

Changed default import references for relative imports within the project and adapted tslint rules to enforce it (old import notation would still work but would lead to tslint errors).

display cookie usage notice - used angular2-cookie-law (ISREST-557)

business customer registration (ISREST-538)

Add Angulartics2 to enable Tracking with Google Analytics and Google Tag Manager

add ishDate pipe for correctly localizing dates

use additional attributes of changed products REST API

consume basket rest api changes (ISREST-556)

load regions from REST API (ISREST-532)

compare button in list view (ISREST-552)

company input fields for business customers added to address forms (ISREST-497)

add and delete addresses in My Account (ISREST-293)

dependency upgrades (including ngrx@7)

get countries per REST (ISREST-532)

Bug Fixes

visiting product detail page of certain products leads to endless product calls for that product in product listings (ISREST-564)

loading deleted products in listings routes to error page

repair address form validation feedback (ISREST-555)

merge basket after login (ISREST-554)

updating address during checkout using the new Basket REST API (ISREST-344)

enable initialNavigation to prevent flickering when loading page in universal mode

Performance Improvements

use the font-display property with 'swap' for faster initial text display

BREAKING CHANGES

Properties ICM_APPLICATION (system environment) and icmApplication (environment.ts) are correctly renamed to ICM_CHANNEL and icmChannel respectively.

Features now have to be supplied using a string array or as a string containing a comma separated list. Features are now opt-in instead of previously opt-out.

First public beta release of the Intershop Progressive Web App (intershop-pwa).

0.1.0 (2018-05-31)

Initial internal beta release of the Intershop Progressive Web App.

Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.