---
id: '62fb04e9446c7d2e1b58e28b41570470'
title: 'Store Import'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3283X4'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:21.328971+00:00'
---
# Store Import

Note:

The tasks described in this section are performed in the context of a sales channel.

## Uploading Import Files

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Stores | Import.
This displays the Import overview page.
-
In the Import Files row, click Upload.
A list of files that have already been uploaded is displayed.
- In the Upload File field, specify the file path or click Choose File to locate the file.
-
Click Upload to upload the file.
The uploaded file is displayed in the list. It can now be imported.

Tip:

In order to save system resources, Intershop recommends to delete the uploaded import files after the import process has been completed.

## Importing Stores (XML)

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Stores | Import.
This displays the Import overview page.
-
Upload the file to be imported.
For details, see
[Uploading Import Files](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/operation_maintenance/topic_store_import.html#task_store_impex_upl). -
In the Stores (XML) row, click Import.
This starts the store import wizard. A list of all files available for import is displayed.
-
Select file to import, then click Next.
The import file is now validated. When successful, the number of stores is displayed. In case of errors, error messages are generated. You can also download the log file.
-
Select the import mode.
The available import modes include OMIT, IGNORE, UPDATE, REPLACE, DELETE, and INITIAL. For import mode details, see
[Standard Import Modes](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/concept_catalog_import_and_export.html#con_cat_impex_modes). -
Click Import.
The import process is started immediately. The Import & Export Status dialog is displayed.