---
id: '6351248288a4ef7020f55da432b38f1c'
title: 'Submitting Data Replication Tasks'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3276P0'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:34.085135+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/3276P0

# Submitting Data Replication Tasks

For replication tasks to be executed, they have to be submitted to the system administrator. Once the start date of the task has been reached, the system administrator can schedule the task for execution. Submitting a replication task changes its status from Editing to Pending.Note: Replication tasks that have been submitted cannot be edited anymore.

-
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Mass Data Tasks | Data Replication Tasks.
This lists all replication tasks in the current management context.

-
Select Editing from the drop-down menu and click Apply.
This filters the list for available replication tasks with the status Editing.

-
Select the replication tasks to be submitted.
-
Click Submit, then click OK to confirm the operation.
The status of the replication tasks changes from Editing to Pending.


## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.