---
id: '6441e76a2c60936d8fc3356d13abeef7'
title: 'Reference'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2573Q2'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:38:12.155004+00:00'
---
This reference covers Intershop's DSL for the Gradle based deployment. It targets developers that need to configure or extend the deployment.

This reference assumes that you are familiar with:

Useful entry points of this document are:

`Settings`

`Settings`

objectThe [reference of Gradle type Project ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Project)which lists all properties added by deployment plugins to Gradle's

`Project`

objectDeep Links and Gradle Versions

This document describes Intershop's Deployment Tools in different versions. Information that applies only to a certain version of the tools is clearly marked as such.

Also the document contains deep links into the Gradle's documentation. For technical reasons they always point to Gradle version 1.8. For Deployment Tools version >= 2.0, please refer to the [Gradle Build Language Reference](http://www.gradle.org/docs/current/dsl/) and [Javadoc for Gradle](http://www.gradle.org/docs/current/dsl/org.gradle.api.tasks.javadoc.Javadoc.html) version 2.0 instead. Mostly it is enough to substitute the version number in the URL, e.g., change:

[http://www.gradle.org/docs/1.8/dsl/org.gradle.api.Task.html](http://www.gradle.org/docs/1.8/dsl/org.gradle.api.Task.html)

into

| Phrase | Meaning |
|---|---|
| Version Control System (VCS) | Also known as source control, source code management systems (SCM), or revision control systems (RCS). VCS is a mechanism for keeping multiple versions of your files, so that when you modify a file you can still access the previous revisions. |
| Artifact Repository | Place, where build and package software components are located. Provide a common interface to a dependency management system. |
| Code Analysis | Process to analyze source code to calculate metrics, find bugs, etc. |
| Continuous Delivery Pipeline | Sometimes called Deployment Pipeline, describes the stages, which code artifacts runs through source to production system. |
| System Component | A software package of different code artifacts and files, that have to be deployed together. |
| System Component Set | Is a container for system components, that needs to be build and branched together. |
| Assembly | An assembly references one or more system components residing in the same or a configured artifact repository in order to deploy or deliver them together. |
| Build Process | Compiles and packages files and code artifacts from a source project to deployable artifacts. |
| Publish Process | The process which transfers the deployable artifacts to a configured artifact repository. |
| Assembly Process | This process combines several system components to an assembly. |
| Deployment Process | This process extracts files and code artifacts from an artifact repository and applies the configuration. |
| Project Gradle Distribution | This is a customized Gradle distribution with the preconfigured artifact repositories and Gradle plugins. |
| Gradle Plugin | A Gradle plugin packages up reusable pieces of build logic, which can be used across many different projects and builds. |
| Project Gradle Plugin | This is a Gradle plugin which contains special corporate respectively project settings. |
| Corporate Plugin | The term is used as a synonym for Project Gradle Plugin. |
| Gradle Extension Object | Java Bean compliant class holding configurations for Gradle plugins. |
| Gradle Wrapper | The Gradle Wrapper is the preferred way of starting a Gradle build. The wrapper is a batch script on Windows, and a shell script for other operating systems. When you start a Gradle build via the wrapper, Gradle will be automatically downloaded and used to run the build. See for more information The Gradle Wrapper in the Gradle documentation (
|
| Intershop Cluster | A number of hosts of different types serving an Intershop 7. |
| Cluster Node | One separately deployable part of an Intershop cluster. A host can run multiple nodes of one Intershop cluster. |

Settings, not a Project plugin

`com.intershop.deploy.bootstrap.DeploymentBootstrapPlugin`

Applied in a `settings.gradle`

script to turn a Gradle multi-project build into a deployment based on a given assembly.

The plugin attaches the [ DeploymentBootstrapExtension ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DeploymentBootstrapExtension)as property

`deploymentBootstrap`

to the `Settings`

object.The `DeploymentBootstrapPlugin`

only performs a minimal initialization (bootstrap), necessary to load 'deploy-settings-gradle' script of an assembly. It then hands over to this script for the actual deployment process.

See [ DeploymentBootstrapExtension ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DeploymentBootstrapExtension)for details.

`com.intershop.deploy.bootstrap.AssemblyDeploymentSettingsPlugin`

Declare subprojects of the deployment based on the dependencies of the assembly and loads assembly and component deployment scripts. Typically applied in a 'deploy-settings-gradle' script of an assembly.

This plugin adds the `configurations`

property and several methods to the [ DeploymentBootstrapExtension ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DeploymentBootstrapExtension)when applied. See its listing of methods and properties.

When applied the plugin:

`configurations`

of the `DeploymentBootstrapExtension`

`self`

to the `Project`

containing the resolved component version as `ModuleVersionIdentifier`

`com.intershop.deploy.settings.HostTypeSettingsPlugin`

Determines assembly configurations to be deployed based on host type and environment. Typically applied in a 'deploy-settings-gradle' script of an assembly.

The `HostTypeSettingsPlugin`

automatically applies the [ AssemblyDeploymentSettingsPlugin](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-AssemblyDeploymentSettingsPlugin). It augments the the

`DeploymentBootstrapExtension`

`deploymentBootstrap`

on the `Settings`

```
```[HostTypeExtension](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-HostTypeExtension)

as property `hostType`

.`configurations`

based on the selected host type and environment.Also it propagates the flags `includeLocal`

, `includeShare`

and `includeCartridges`

from the selected [ HostType ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-HostType)to the

```
```[TargetExtension](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-TargetExtension)

of the root project (if the `TargetPlugin`

`com.intershop.deploy.resources.ResourceDeploymentPlugin`

The `ResourceDeploymentPlugin`

is the core plugin of the deployment. Most other deployment plugins uses its DSL to fulfill their purpose.

Allows to deploy files, links, directories and permissions (resources). The plugin keeps an index over all deployed resources, so it can determine which files have changed compared to the previously deployed version and can also remove obsolete files. It also allows to modify the content of deployed files through content filters and handle modifications outside the deployment.

The `ResourceDeploymentPlugin`

attaches the [ ResourceDeploymentExtension ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-ResourceDeploymentExtension)as property

`deployment`

to the `Project`

`ResourceDeploymentExtension`

, tasks for deploying resources is created. See `ResourceDeploymentExtension`

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.AppserverDeploymentPlugin`

Allows to provide Intershop 7 nodemanager or appserver configuration for the project it is applied to. It attaches the [ AppserverExtension ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-AppserverExtension) as property

`appserver`

to the `Project`

If you apply this plugin to the root project` `

and to a child project, all values of the root project's `AppserverExtension `

are propagated to the `AppserverExtension`

of the child project by default. You can still overwrite them for the child project only.

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.AssemblyShareDeploymentPlugin`

Extracts all artifacts of the assembly of Ivy artifact type 'share' to *IS_SHARE*. To do so it creates a [ FileDeployment ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-FileDeployment)with name

`share`

in the `ResourceDeploymentExtension`

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.CartridgeListDeploymentPlugin`

Generates the *<IS_SHARE>/system/cartridges/cartridgelist.properties* file. It sets three properties:

`cartridges`

- contains all cartridges of the `environment`

selected at the `HostTypeExtension`

`cartridges.dbinit`

- same as above plus all init-only-cartridges (see `cartridges.source`

- all cartridges in the property `sourceCartridges`

of the ```
```[DeveloperExtension](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1789927162/Reference+-+Gradle+Deployment+Tools#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DeveloperExtension)

The cartridges are sorted in the same order as they appear in the assembly's *ivy.xml* file.

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.ConfigureCartridgesPlugin`

Applies the ```
```

to all projects representing a cartridge. This way the great majority of cartridges doesn't have to ship with a deployment script.[CartridgeDeploymentPlugin](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-CartridgeDeploymentPlugin)

Cartridges are all components of the `environment`

selected at the [ HostTypeExtension ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-HostTypeExtension)plus all init-only-cartridges (see

A component that is contained in this set, but has a custom deploy script (as found by the ```
```

the [AssemblyDeploymentSettingsPlugin](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-AssemblyDeploymentSettingsPlugin)),
```
```

is not applied.`CartridgeDeploymentPlugin`


`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.DatabaseDeploymentPlugin`

Modifies *<IS_SHARE>/system/config/cluster/orm.properties* and *<IS_SHARE>/system/config/oracle/tnsnames.ora *to match the database settings provided in the [ DatabaseExtension](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DatabaseExtension).

Applies the [ DatabasePlugin](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DatabasePlugin).

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.DatabasePlugin`

Allows to provide database connection configuration for the project it is applied to. It attaches the [DatabaseExtension ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DatabaseExtension) as property database to the [ Project](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Project).

If you apply this plugin to the root project and to a child project, all values of the root project's `DatabaseExtension`

are propagated to the `DatabaseExtension`

of the child project by default. You can still overwrite them for the child project only.

` com.intershop.deploy.intershop.DeployDatabaseDumpPlugin`

Deploys an an artifact of type Ivy artifact type 'dump' to *IS_HOME/tools/misc/database.dmp*. To do so it creates a [ FileDeployment ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-FileDeployment)with name databaseDump in the

`ResourceDeploymentExtension`

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.DeveloperDeploymentPlugin`

Adds a task 'deployCartridges', which allows to selectively deploy a set of cartridges.

If the extra project property `cartridges`

is set, it is expected to contain a white-space separated list of cartridge names. If set, only these cartridges are redeployed.

If the property is not set, all cartridges specified in the property `sourceCartridges`

of the `DeveloperExtension`

are deployed.

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.DeveloperPlugin`

Allows to provide configuration only needed at development time. It attaches the ```
```

as property [ DeveloperExtension ](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1789927162/Reference+-+Gradle+Deployment+Tools#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DeveloperExtension)

`developer`

to the `Project`

If you apply this plugin to the root project and to a child project, all values of the root project's `DeveloperExtension `

are propagated to the `DeveloperExtension`

of the child project by default. You can still overwrite them for the child project only.

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.EnvironmentConfigurationPlugin`

Copies the value of property `environment`

of the [ HostTypeExtension ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-HostTypeExtension)to

`<IS_SHARE>/system/config/cluster/environment.properties`

. This way the configuration framework uses the same name for the current environment as the deployment.`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.IntershopPlugins`

Applies a set of standard Intershop plugins. (Does nothing except for applying other plugins.) Applying `IntershopPlugins`

has the same effect as the following code fragment:

import com.intershop.deploy.intershop.* import com.intershop.deploy.assembly.AssemblyDeploymentPlugin apply plugin: AssemblyDeploymentPlugin apply plugin: AssemblyShareDeploymentPlugin apply plugin: AppserverDeploymentPlugin apply plugin: DatabaseDeploymentPlugin apply plugin: ConfigureCartridgesPlugin apply plugin: CartridgeListDeploymentPlugin apply plugin: IvyDeploymentDatePlugin apply plugin: DeployDatabaseDumpPlugin apply plugin: LicenseDeploymentPlugin apply plugin: EnvironmentConfigurationPlugin apply plugin: MulticastDeploymentPlugin apply plugin: WebAdapterDeploymentPlugin apply plugin: DeveloperPlugin apply plugin: DeveloperDeploymentPlugin apply plugin: StagingDeploymentPlugin // additionally in Gradle tools >= 2.0 apply plugin: com.intershop.deploy.encryption.EncryptionAdminPlugin apply plugin: com.intershop.deploy.encryption.EncryptionDeploymentPlugin apply plugin: SSLBoxDeploymentPlugin apply plugin: WebAdapterConfigurationPlugin

To apply only a subset of these plugins, do not apply `IntershopPlugins`

, but instead use this code fragment and modify it accordingly.

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.IvyDeploymentDatePlugin`

Deploys the assembly's *ivy.xml* file to <*IS_SHARE>/ivy.xml* and <*IS_HOME>/ivy.xml *and writes the current date into the `deployment`

attribute of the `info`

element. To do so it creates [ FileDeployment ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-FileDeployment) with the name

`<name of IS_SHARE directory>Ivy`

and ```
<name of IS_SHARE directory>Ivy
```

in the `ResourceDeploymentExtension`

Note that the deployment-date in the *ivy.xml* files is only updated on full deployments or if the task `deploy`

`<name of IS_SHARE directory>IvyFiles`

, resp. `deploy`

`<name of IS_HOME directory>IvyFiles `

is executed.

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.LicenseDeploymentPlugin`

Deploys a license file to *<IS_SHARE>/system/license/license.xml. *Declare the source of the license in the ```
```

Applies the [LicenseExtension](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-LicenseExtension).```
```

.[LicensePlugin](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-LicensePlugin)

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.LicensePlugin`

Allows to configure the source of a license file. It attaches the [LicenseExtension ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-LicenseExtension) as property license to the ```
```

.[Project](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Project)

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.MulticastDeploymentPlugin`

Applies multicast configuration provided in the [ MulticastExtension ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-MulticastExtension) to configuration files in

Applies the [ MulticastPlugin](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-MulticastPlugin).

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.MulticastPlugin`

Allows to provide multicast configuration for the project it is applied to. It attaches the ```
```

as property [MulticastExtension](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-MulticastExtension)
`multicast`

to the [ Project](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Project).

If you apply this plugin to the root project and to a child project, all values of the root project's MulticastExtension are propagated to the `MulticastExtension`

of the child project by default. You can still overwrite them for the child project only.

```
```

Plugin `com.intershop.deploy.intershop.SolrPlugin`

*This plugin is newly introduced with Gradle Tools 2.0.*

The plugin allows to provide a solr cluster configuration for the project it is applied to. It attaches the ```
```

as property [SolrExtension](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-SolrExtension)
```
solr
```

to the [ Project](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Project).

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.SolrDeploymentPlugin`

*Since Gradle Tools 2.0, this plugin also applies
*

Configures *ac_search_solr* to connect to a Solr server deployed in the outer tomcat of an Intershop 7 application server. It also disables the creation of search indices during DBInit.

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.StagingDeploymentPlugin`

Sets the staging type in *<IS_SHARE>/system/config/cluster/staging.properties *and deploys a provided *replication-clusters.xml* for edit systems. Provide the configuration for this plugin in the [ StagingExtension](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-StagingExtension).

Applies the [ StagingPlugin](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-StagingPlugin).

*Since Gradle Tools 2.0*, this plugin will perform additional configuration for `live`

systems:

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.StagingPlugin`

Allows to provide staging configuration for the project it is applied to. It attaches the ```
```

as property staging to the [StagingExtension](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-StagingExtension)
[ Project](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Project).

If you apply this plugin to the root project and to a child project, all values of the root project's `StagingExtension`

are propagated to the `StagingExtension`

of the child project by default. You can still overwrite them for the child project only.

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.WebAdapterDeploymentPlugin`

Allows to provide Apache and Web Adapter configuration for the project it is applied to. It attaches the ```
```

as property [WebadapterDeploymentExtension](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-WebAdapterDeploymentExtension)
`webadapter`

to the [ Project](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Project).

If you apply this plugin to the root project and to a child project, all values of the root project's `WebAdapterDeploymentExtension`

are propagated to the `WebAdapterDeploymentExtension`

of the child project by default. You can still overwrite them for the child project only.

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.WebAdapterConfigurationPlugin`

*This plugin is newly introduced with Gradle Tools 2.0.*

This plugin applies the

and filters the [WebAdapterDeploymentPlugin](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-WebAdapterDeploymentPlugin)

according to the settings in *IS_SHARE*/system/config/cluster/*webadapter.properties*

.[WebadapterDeploymentExtension](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-WebAdapterDeploymentExtension)

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.SSLBoxDeploymentPlugin`

*This plugin is newly introduced with Gradle Tools 2.0.*

In case the property `useSSLBox`

has been set on ```
```

, this plugin modifies the webserver's [WebadapterDeploymentExtension](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-WebAdapterDeploymentExtension)`httpd.conf`

and the Web Adapter's `webadapter.properties`

files to configure usage of an external SSL box for transport security. SSL box specific webserver configuration is deployed as a new file `httpd-sslbox.conf`

.

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.TomcatPlugin`

*This plugin is newly introduced with Gradle Tools 2.0.*

The plugin allows to provide configuration about the tomcat servlet containers. It attaches the [TomcatExtension](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-TomcatExtension) as property `tomcat`

to the [ Project](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Project).

`com.intershop.deploy.assembly.AssemblyDeploymentPlugin`

Provides overall deployment tasks and configurations. It attaches the [AssemblyDeploymentExtension](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-AssemblyDeploymentExtension) as property assemblyDeployment to the [ Project](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Project). See chapter

The ```
AssemblyDeploymentPlugin
```

also creates Javadoc index page and provides stylesheets, based on the values configured at the [ DeveloperExtension](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1789927162/Reference+-+Gradle+Deployment+Tools#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DeveloperExtension).

`com.intershop.deploy.assembly.TargetPlugin`

Allows to provide configuration about the target system and locations. It attaches the ```
```

as property [TargetExtension](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-TargetExtension)
`target`

to the [ Project](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Project).

If you apply this plugin to the root project and to a child project, all values of the root project's TargetExtension are propagated to the `TargetExtension`

of the child project by default. You can still overwrite them for the child project only.

`com.intershop.deploy.cartridge.CartridgeDeploymentPlugin`

Deploys a cartridge. It attaches the [ CartridgeDeploymentExtension ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-CartridgeDeploymentExtension)as property

`cartridgeDeployment`

to the `Project`

The `CartridgeDeploymentPlugin `

adds the following ```
```

objects using the [FileDeployment ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-FileDeployment)
[ ResourceDeploymentExtension](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-ResourceDeploymentExtension):

| Name | Contents | Destination |
|---|---|---|
`jar` | all artifacts of Ivy artifact type 'jar' | <property /`cartridgesDirectory` of `CartridgeDeploymentExtension` ><cartridge>/release/lib |
`share` | all artifacts of Ivy artifact type 'share' |
|
`ivy` | the ivy.xml file of the cartridge | <property `cartridgesDirectory` of `CartridgeDeploymentExtension` ><cartridge>/release/lib |
`cartridge` | all artifacts of Ivy artifact type 'cartridge' | <property `cartridgesDirectory` of `CartridgeDeploymentExtension` > |
`javadoc` | all artifacts of Ivy artifact type 'javadoc' | <property javadocDirectory of `CartridgeDeploymentExtension` > |

`com.intershop.deploy.infrastructure.InfrastructureDeploymentPlugin`

Deploys an infrastructure component. It adds the following ```
```

objects using the [FileDeployment ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-FileDeployment)
[ ResourceDeploymentExtension](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-ResourceDeploymentExtension):

| Name | Contents | Destination |
|---|---|---|
`local` | all artifacts of Ivy artifact type 'local' whose Ivy classifier matches the property `platform` of the
`TargetExtension` | <property localDirectory of `TargetExtension` > |
`share` | all artifacts of Ivy artifact type 'share' |
|


`com.intershop.deploy.encryption.EncryptionAdminPlugin`

*This plugin is newly introduced with Gradle Tools 2.0.*

Creates and modifies encryption configuration files. It also adds tasks for encrypting and decrypting arbitrary strings using this encryption configuration (useful for encrypting the database password). See [chapter Task Instances](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-TaskInstances) for all task instances.

This plugin can be used within a deployment, but also in a pre-deployment stage outside in separate Gradle script. See the [Recipe: Configure Encryption in Cookbook - Gradle Deployment Tools](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1783302208#Cookbook-GradleDeploymentTools(7.4CI-ICM7.7)-ConfigureEncryption).

Applies the [ EncryptionPlugin](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-EncryptionPlugin).

`com.intershop.deploy.encryption.EncryptionDeploymentPlugin`

*This plugin is newly introduced with Gradle Tools 2.0.*

Deploys encryption configuration files into *IS_SHARE*. To do so it creates [ FileDeployment ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-FileDeployment) with the name

`encryptionConfig`

in the `ResourceDeploymentExtension`

`EncryptionExtension`

Applies the [ EncryptionPlugin](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-EncryptionPlugin).

`com.intershop.deploy.encryption.EncryptionPlugin`

*This plugin is newly introduced with Gradle Tools 2.0.*

Allows to provide database connection configuration for the project it is applied to. It attaches the ```
```

as property [EncryptionExtension](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-EncryptionExtension) `encryption`

to the [ Project](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Project).

`com.intershop.deploy.bootstrap.DeploymentBootstrapExtension`

Extension to configure which assembly gets deployed. Attached by the [ DeploymentBootstrapPlugin ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DeploymentBootstrapPlugin)as property

`deploymentBootstrap`

to Gradle's The `DeploymentBootstrapExtension`

needs to be configured by:

`repositories`

method to specify repositories for finding the assembly.`assembly`

method to specify which assembly to deploy and trigger the rest of the deployment process (see details below).Configuring Repositories outside a Gradle Project

Since - differing from Gradle's `Project`

objects - the Gradle's `Settings`

object has no [ RepositoryHandler ](http://www.gradle.org/docs/1.8/dsl/org.gradle.api.artifacts.dsl.RepositoryHandler.html),

`ConfigurationContainer`

`DependencyHandler`

`DeploymentBootstrapExtension`

has properties of these types that can be used for this purpose. (The `DeploymentBootstrapExtension`

makes use of these properties itself to resolve the assembly.)deploymentBootstrap { repositories { ivy { url "http://repo.mycompany.com/repo" } } assembly('com.mycompany.assembly:shop') { hostType { hostType 'appserver' environment 'production' } } config { // configure the root project in any way ext.someInstallationMetaData = 'text' } }

During Gradle's configuration phase the `DeploymentBootstrapExtension`

is also available as an extra property `deploymentBootstrap`

of the root [project](http://jdevconf01.es.j.intershop.de#Project). This allows to access information specified in the initialization phase, e.g., the assembly to be deployed or the host type and environment, in the configuration phase, e.g., in the assembly's or the component's deploy scripts.

if (deploymentBootstrap.hostType.hostType.name == 'appserver') { // configure something specific to appserver deployment }

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
```
``` | `repositoryHandler` | Repository handler for declaring repositories to be used during deployment (read-only) | |
`ConfigurationContainer` |

`configurationContainer`

`DependencyHandler`

`dependencyHandler`

```
```[ModuleVersionIdentifier](http://www.gradle.org/docs/1.8/javadoc/org/gradle/api/artifacts/ModuleVersionIdentifier.html)

`assemblyModuleId`

`assembly`

method or after the initialization phase (read-only)`AssemblyDeploymentSettingsPlugin`

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`List<String>` or `Closure ` | `configurations` | Ivy configurations of the assembly. All components inside these configurations are deployed. If a closure it must yield a Set it in the closure passed to the | `['default']` |

```
```[HostTypeSettingsPlugin](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-HostTypeSettingsPlugin)

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
```
``` ` ` | `hostType` | Extension for selecting host type and environment to deploy (read-only) |

| Return Type | Method Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
`void` | `repositories(Action<? super ` `> configure)` | Declares the repositories for finding the assembly. These repository declarations are also propagated further to find components to be deployed and deployment plugins.
|
`void` | `assembly(dependencyNotation, Closure closure = null)` | Loads a given assembly for deployment. This includes the following steps:
Resolves the
Optional |
`void` | `config(Closure closure)` | Configures the root This is a convenience method typically used inside
|

`AssemblyDeploymentSettingsPlugin`

| Return Type | Method Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
`List<` | `projectsInConfigurations(Collection<String> configurationsToSelect, Closure<?> configureClosure = null)` | Retrieves a list of projects that were created from dependencies in given configurations of the deployed assembly by the Since these are projects this – differing from the The order in the returned list is the order as declared in the assembly's
|
`List<` | `projectsInConfiguration(String configurationToSelect, Closure<?> configureClosure = null)` | Shortcut for calling `projectsInConfigurations` method with a single configuration. |
`List<` |
| Retrieves a list of components contained as dependencies in given configurations of the deployed assembly. Differing from the The order in the returned list is the order as declared in the assembly's
|
`List<` | `componentsInConfiguration(String configurationToSelect)` | Shortcut for calling `componentsInConfigurations` method with a single configuration. |

`com.intershop.deploy.settings.HostTypeExtension`

Extension object to select host type and environment to be deployed. Can also be used to query host types and environments available in the assembly.

It is created by the [ HostTypeSettingsPlugin ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-HostTypeSettingsPlugin)and attached to the

`DeploymentBootstrapExtension`

`deploymentBootstrap`

) on the `Settings`

`hostType`

.| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
```
``` | `hostType` | Selected host type. | |
```
``` | `environment` | Selected environment. | |
| `environments` | All environments available in the assembly, keyed by their name. (read-only and immutable) | |
`Map<String, ` | `hostTypes` | All host types available in the assembly, keyed by their name. (read-only and immutable) | |
`List<String>` | `configurations` | Configurations of the assembly that are selected for deployment based on the selected host type and assembly. (read-only and immutable) |

| Return Type | Method Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
```
``` |

`hostType(String hostTypeName)`

Selects the host type by the given name for deployment and returns it. Only existing host types are allowed.

** Parameters: **

`hostTypeName`

- Name of the host type to select. ` `


`Environment`

`environment(String environmentName)`


Selects the environment by the given name for deployment and returns it. Only existing environments are allowed.

** Parameters: **

`environmentName `

- Name of the environment to select.

`com.intershop.deploy.resources.ResourceDeploymentExtension`

Extension to configure deployment of resources. Resources are files, links, directories, services and permissions. Attached to the [ Project ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Project)by the

`ResourceDeploymentPlugin`

`deployment`

.For each type of resources the `ResourceDeploymentExtension`

has a [ NamedDomainObjectContainer ](http://www.gradle.org/docs/1.8/javadoc/org/gradle/api/NamedDomainObjectContainer.html) to configure which resources should be deployed and how. Each of the contained domain objects may represent one ore more resources (like a set of files extracted from the same archive). The names of the contained domain objects can be chosen freely (there are no strict connections, like between the name of a file to deploy and the name of the

`FileDeployment`

declaring its deployment).... deploymentBootstrap {... config {... deployment { files { // set of additional script files to be deployed additionalScripts { from new File('/opt/install/additional-scripts') into new File(target.localDirectory, 'bin') } } filters { // inside the script files replace all occurences of @ADDITIONAL_RESOURCE_DIRECTORY@ by some directory replacePlaceholders('scriptFilePlaceholders') { dir = new File(target.localDirectory, 'bin') include '*.sh' placeholders['ADDITIONAL_RESOURCE_DIRECTORY'] = '/opt/resources' } } } } }

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
```
``` | `files` | Sets of files to be created and filled by the deployment (read-only) For each | |
```
``` | `links` | Symbolic links to be created by the deployment (read-only) A single task | |
```
``` | `directories` | Directories to be created by the deployment (read-only) A single task | |
```
``` | `permissions` | POSIX file modes to be applied to a file or directory (read-only) A single task | |
```
``` | `services` | Windows services and linux init.d-scripts to be deployed (read-only) The For each service a corresponding , using the naming convention `deploy<name of the WindowServiceDeployment/LinuxServiceDeployment>` . Tasks are only created for services matching the current platform. Also there is a an overall task `deployServices` per project depending on all those single tasks.Services won't be created during the deployment itself, because this requires administrator/root privileges. Instead the tasks | |
```
``` | `modification` | Determines how to handle modification of deployed files by non-deployment processes (read-only) See section for additional methods that are available inside the modification handler container. | |
```
``` | `filters` | Content filters to be applied during the deployment of files (e.g., replace placeholder, overwrite properties etc.) (read-only) See section for additional methods that are available inside the filters container. | |
`String` | `user` | Name of the user that should own the resulting files. The deployment must be executed with this user. | |
```
String
``` | ```
userGroup
``` | Name of a user group of that user. Used for processes (like the Apache) that allow to configure a group for execution. | n.a. |
`File` | `postInstallDirectory` | Post install directory to collect files and shell/batch scripts for post install process. | <directory of settings.gradle>/postinstall |
`List<String>` | `modificationPriorities` | An ordered list of priority levels for modification handling. Levels that are listed later are preferred over levels listed earlier. | `['default']` |

| Return Type | Method Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
```
``` | `artifacts(Map<String, Object> params = null, Closure<?> closure = null)` | Creates a Gradle The return value is typically passed to the
|

`filters`

PropertyThe `filters`

property has the following additional methods for easy creation of common filters:

| Return Type | Method Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
```
``` | `overrideProperties(String name, Closure configureClosure)` | Creates a filter for overriding properties and adds it to the
|
```
``` | `replacePlaceholders(String name, Closure configureClosure)` | Creates a filter for replacing placeholders and adds it to the
|
```
``` | `xmlContent(String name, Closure configureClosure)` | Creates a filter for manipulating XML files and adds it to the
|
```
``` | `editLines(String name, Closure configureClosure)` | Creates a filter which can perform arbitrary manipulation on a line-by-line basis and adds it to the
|
`FullContentFilter` |

`fullContent(String name, Closure configureClosure)`

Creates a filter which can perform arbitrary manipulation on the full text content of a file and adds it the the `filters`

container.

** Parameters: **

`name –`

Name of the filter.

`configureClosure `

– Closure used to configure the resulting [ FullContentFilter](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-FullContentFilter).

`modification`

PropertyThe modification property has the following additional methods for easy creation of common modification handlers:

| Return Type | Method Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
```
``` | ```
``` | Creates a modification handler that overwrites modified files and issues a warning.
|
```
``` | ```
keep
(String name, Closure configureClosure)
``` | Creates a modification handler that keeps modified files and ignores new content/state to be deployed and issues a warning.
|
```
``` | ```
abort(String name, Closure configureClosure)
``` | Creates a modification handler that aborts the deployment process in case of a modified files without altering it.
|
|

```
backup(String name, Closure configureClosure)
```

Creates a modification handler that renames modified files by appending *-backup,* *-backup1*, *-backup2* etc.

**Parameters: **

`name –`

Name of the handler.

`configureClosure `

– Closure used to configure the resulting ```
```

.[BackupModificationHandler](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-BackupModificationHandler)

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.AppserverExtension`

Extension to configure Intershop 7 nodemanager and appserver instances. Attached to the [ Project ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Project) by the

`AppserverDeploymentPlugin`

`appserver`

.| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
```
String
``` | ```
configPath
``` | Parent directory to the appserver specific property file
The The new default value places the appserver specific property file on the host of the appserver node itself, making it possible to add an appserver without touching the shared file system. You may revert to the legacy location on the shared filesystem of this file by using the value:
| `${IS_HOME}/config` |
`String` | `hostname` | Host name of the appserver. | 'localhost' if property `hostType` of the
`all` ', otherwise no default. |
`String` | `webserverHost` | Host name of the front end webserver (a Web Adapter or a load balancer). Used for generating URLs in response pages. | Value of property `hostname` of
`WebadapterExtension` |
`Integer` | `webserverPort` | TCP port of the front end webserver for HTTP communication. Used for generating URLs in response pages. | Value of property port of
`WebadapterExtension` |

`Integer`

`webserverSecurePort`

`securePort`

of `WebadapterExtension`

`String`

`nodemanagerNetworkInterface`

IP4-Address of network interface for the nodemanager to listen for JMX communication.

*Deprecated since Gradle Tools 2.0: use
*.

`127.0.0.1`

`Integer`

`nodemanagerJmxPort`

TCP port for the nodemanager to listen for JMX communication.

*Deprecated since Gradle Tools 2.0: use *

[NamedDomainObjectContainer](http://www.gradle.org/docs/1.8/javadoc/org/gradle/api/NamedDomainObjectContainer.html)

`<`[Appserver](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Appserver)>

`instances`

Collection of `Appserver`

objects to declare appserver instance specific configuration. An appserver instance is created for each object in this collection (read-only)

*Since Gradle Tools 2.0 this collection will automatically create appropriate objects for *

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.TomcatExtension`

*This extension is newly introduced with Gradle Tools 2.0.*

Extension to configure tomcat instances for Intershop 7. Attached to the [ Project ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Project) by the

```
```[TomcatPlugin](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-TomcatPlugin)

as property `tomcat`

.| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`String` | `nodemanagerNetworkInterface` | IP4-Address of network interface for the nodemanager to listen for JMX communication | `127.0.0.1` |
`int` | `nodemanagerJmxPort` | TCP port for the nodemanager to listen for JMX communication | n.a. |
```
``` | ```
instances
``` | Collection of `TomcatServer` objects to declare tomcat server instances | n.a. |

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.DatabaseExtension`

Extension to configure database connection. Attached to the [ Project ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Project)by the

`DatabasePlugin`

`database`

.| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
| ```
host
``` | Host of the database server. | n.a. |
`int` | `port` | TCP port of the database server. | n.a. |
`String` | `sid` | Oracle System ID. Prefer to use the Service Name instead since Gradle tools version 2.0 | n.a. |
`String` | `serviceName` | Oracle Service Name. Available since Gradle tools version 2.0. | n.a. |
`String` | `tnsAlias` | Address name for this connection used in Oracle's tnsnames.ora file. | n.a. |
`String` | `user` | Database user account. | n.a. |
`String` | `password` | Database user password. In plain text, in Gradle tools version < 2.0, or if | n.a. |
`boolean` | `passwordIsEncrypted` | Determines whether the password is encrypted. Available since Gradle tools version 2.0. | `false` |
`File` | `oracleClientDir` | Path to oracle client. The path is checked for an existing directory. | n.a. |

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.DeveloperExtension`

Extension to provide configuration only needed in a development environment. Attached to the [ Project ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Project)by the

`DeveloperPlugin`

`developer`

.| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
| ```
sourceDirectories
``` | List of IS_SOURCE directories to look up source cartridges (component set directories). | Empty list. |
```
List<String>
``` | ```
sourceCartridges
``` | List of cartridges to be treated as source cartridges by the application server. | Empty list. |
`boolean` | `includeJavadoc` | In order to deploy Javadoc at all. |
|
`File` | `javadocDirectory` | Root directory to deploy Javadoc into. | <IS_SHARE>/javadoc |

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.LicenseExtension`

Extension to provide a license file. Attached to the [ Project ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Project)by the

`LicensePlugin`

`license`

.| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`File` | `licenseFile` | Path to the | n.a. |

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.MulticastExtension`

Extension to configure multicast connections required by Intershop 7 clusters. Attached to the [ Project ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Project)by the

`MulticastPlugin`

`multicast`

.**Until Gradle tools version 1.0:**

The properties in this extension reflect properties read by the configuration framework:

`appserver`

result in Intershop 7 properties with the prefix 'intershop.event'. See ```
tcm
```

result in Intershop 7 properties with the prefix 'intershop.tcm.event'. See `tcm.properties`

.**Gradle tools version >= 1.1:**

Every multicast channel used is represented by a separate property of type [ MulticastMessenger](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-MulticastMessenger). See section 'properties' below.

**Until Gradle tools version 1.0:**

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`String` | ```
appserverMulticastAddress
``` | IP address for broadcasting appserver events. | n.a. |
```
int
``` | ```
appserverMulticastPort
``` | Private port for broadcasting appserver events. | n.a. |
```
String
``` | ```
appserverMulticastInterface
``` | IP adress of network interface to use for broadcasting appserver events. (Only required if multiple interfaces are available.) | ```
null
``` |
```
String
``` | ```
cacheMulticastAddress
``` | IP address for broadcasting cache events. | n.a. |
```
int
``` | ```
cacheMulticastPort
``` | Private port for broadcasting cache events. | n.a. |
```
String
``` | ```
cacheMulticastInterface
``` | IP adress of network interface to use for broadcasting cache events. (Only required if multiple interfaces are available.) | ```
null
``` |
```
String
``` | ```
tcmMulticastAddress
``` | IP address for broadcasting events between TCCs and nodemanagers. | n.a. |
```
int
``` | ```
tcmMulticastPort
``` | Private port for broadcasting events between TCCs and nodemanagers. | n.a. |
```
String
``` | ```
tcmMulticastInterface
``` | IP adress of network interface to use for broadcasting events between TCCs and nodemanagers. (Only required if multiple interfaces are available.) | ```
null
``` |

**Gradle tools version >= 1.1:**

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
```
``` | `tcm` | Multicast configuration for Tomcat Cluster Manager + node manager (read-only) Results in properties with the prefix 'intershop.tcm.event'. See | |
```
``` | `appserver` | Multicast configuration for appserver events (read-only) Results in Intershop 7 properties with the prefix 'intershop.cacheengine.wrapped. See | |
```
``` | `cache` | Multicast configuration for cache events using the Results in Intershop 7 properties with the prefix 'intershop.cacheengine.wrapped'. | |
```
``` | `orm` | Multicast configuration for ORM cache synchronization (read-only) Results in Intershop 7 properties with the prefix 'intershop.cacheSync'. |

**Gradle tools version >= 1.1:**

| Return Type | Method Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
```
``` | `all(Closure<?> closure = null)` | Configures all `MulticastMessenger` .
|

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.SolrExtension`

*This extension is newly introduced with Gradle Tools 2.0.*

This extension allows to configure the solr cluster used by Intershop 7. Attached to the [ Project ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Project)by the

[SolrPlugin](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-SolrPlugin)

as property `solr`

.| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`Set<String>` | `clusterNodes ` | Server URLs for the all Solr server nodes which belong to the Solr cluster in the form | empty set |
`String` | `server` | Server URL of the primary Solr server (or a load balancer) used by Intershop 7 in the form `http://<HOST>:<PORT>` | n.a. |
`String ` | `contextPath` | The context path where the Solr Server Web Application is installed at the server. | not required |

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.StagingExtension`

Extension to configure staging (data replication). Attached to the [ Project ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Project)by the

`MulticastPlugin`

`staging`

.| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`String` | `systemType` | Type of staging system. Possible values are:
| `none` |
`File` | `replicationClustersFile` | Source of the When set, the path is checked to denote an existing file. | n.a. |

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.WebAdapterDeploymentExtension`

Extension to configure the Web Adapter. Attached to the [ Project ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Project)by the

`webadapter`

.| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
```
String
``` | ```
sharedMemoryKey
``` | Unique identifier for the shared memory used by the Apache. Use the form '0x<4-digit hexadecimal number>' e.g., '0x2001'. | n.a. |
```
List<String>
``` | ```
configurationServices
``` | List of appserver to connect to for configuration servlets. Each entry of the list must have the form '<hostname>:<port>', e.g., 'localhost:8080' | If property `hostType` of
`HostTypeExtension` |
`String` | ```
hostname
``` | Server name for the Apache. | If property `hostType` of
`HostTypeExtension` |
```
int
``` | `port` | TCP/IP port to bind Apache to for HTTP communication. | 80 |
```
int
``` | `securePort` | TCP/IP port to bind Apache to for HTTPS communication. | 443 |
`boolean` | `useSSLBox` | Specifies whether or not an external SSL box is being used. (Only available since Gradle Tools 2.0.) | `false` |
`int` | `sslBoxSecuredPort` | The internal port, the webserver should listen to for accepting connections, that have been encrypted by the SSL box. | n.a. |
`Set<String>` | `serverGroups` | All server groups known to the Web Adapter. | If property
`AppserverExtension` |

`com.intershop.deploy.assembly.AssemblyDeploymentExtension`

Extension for providing configuration common to the assembly and all components. Attached to the [ Project ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Project) by the

```
```[A](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-WebAdapterDeploymentPlugin)ssemblyDeploymentPlugin

as property `assemblyDeployment`

. Some of the properties are propagated to the ```
```[ResourceDeploymentExtension](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-ResourceDeploymentExtension)

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
| ```
indexLocation
``` | Location and name of index file. Used for loading the index upon start up (if it exists) and storing in the ```
``` . | index.idx in the directory of the settings.gradle file |
```
String
``` | ```
user
``` | Name of the user that should own the resulting files and run deployed applications. The deployment must be executed with this user. Propagated to property `user` of the
`ResourceDeploymentExtension` | n.a. |
```
String
``` | ```
userGroup
``` | Name of a user group of that user. Used for processes (like the Apache) that allow to configure a group for execution. Propagated to property `userGroup` of the
`ResourceDeploymentExtension` | n.a. |
```
boolean
``` | `purgeUnknownFiles` | If `true` , files created by non-deployment-processes inside directories created by the deployment are deleted if these directories are no longer required by the deployment. (Example: Log-files.) If `false` , the deployment will keep all files not created by it. See
`DirectoryDeployment` | `false` |
```
File
``` | ```
postInstallDirectory
``` | Parent directory of post-install directory. Post-install scripts - if any - will be created inside the subdirectory 'postinstall' of this directory. | directory of the settings.gradle file |
```
List<String>
``` | ```
modificationPriorities
``` | An ordered list of priority levels for modification handling. Levels that are listed later are preferred over levels listed earlier. Propagated to property modificationPriorities of the of this and all child projects.. | `['default']` |
```
String
``` | ```
defaultModificationHandler
``` | Default
`ModificationHandler` |

`modifications`

property of the `ResourceDeploymentExtension`

```
'overwrite'
```

`com.intershop.deploy.assembly.TargetExtension`

Extension for describing target location and system of the deployment. Attached to the [ Project ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Project)by the

`target`

.| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`String` | `platform` | Platform of the system. Used to select platform specific artifacts. Allowed values are:
| n.a. |
`String` | `instanceId` | Instance ID of the Intershop 7 installation. Used to distinguish global resources like service names. Please use an integer (despite the type). | n.a. |
`File` | `shareDirectory` | Location of Cannot be the directory of the | n.a. |
`Boolean` | `includeShare` | If `true` , all deployed components also deploy their share-artifacts. If `false` , the share-artifacts are excluded. | value of `includeShare` of selected host type |
`File` | `localDirectory` | Main deployment directory. Location of Cannot be the directory of the | n.a. |
`Boolean` | `includeLocal` | If `true` , all deployed components also deploy their non-share-artifacts. If `false` , the non-share-artifacts are excluded. | value of |

*Additional properties are newly introduced with Gradle Tools 2.0:*

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value | |||||||||
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
```
File
``` | ```
javaHome
``` | This JDK location is used in scripts, e.g., to execute the server-startup. | value of `java.home` of the current gradle-process | |||||||||
`String` | `cartridgesPath` | The location of cartridges relative to the local or share root directories designated by the placeholders `${IS_HOME}` and `${IS_SHARE}` . |
If both | |||||||||
`File` | `cartridgesDirectory` | Resolved location of cartridges (read-only property generated from This folder contains the cartridge part of all cartridges, as well as the | ||||||||||
`Boolean` | `includeCartridges` | If Note: This does not affect the share or Javadoc artifacts of cartridges. | value of |

`com.intershop.deploy.cartridge.CartridgeDeploymentExtension`

Extension for configuring the deployment of a cartridge. Attached to the [ Project ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Project)by the

`CartridgeDeploymentPlugin`

`cartridgeDeployment`

.| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
| `cartridgesDirectory` | Directory to contain all cartridges. | property `cartridgesDirectory` of ```
``` |
`boolean` | ```
includeShare
``` | If `true` , all contributions of the cartridge to the share are deployed. If `false` they are omitted. | property `includeShare` of ```
``` |
`File` | `shareDirectory` | Directory to contain share-artifacts of the cartridge. | property `shareDirectory` of ```
``` |
`boolean ` | `includeJavadoc` | If `true` , the javadoc of the cartridge is deployed. If `false` it is omitted. | `true` if property `includeJavadoc` of
`DeveloperExtension` |
```
File
``` | ```
javadocDirectory
``` | Directory to contain the Javadoc of all cartridges. | property `javadocDirectory` of ```
``` |

`com.intershop.deploy.encryption.EncryptionExtension`

*This extension is newly introduced with Gradle Tools 2.0.*

Extension for providing location of encryption configuration files and algorithm to use. Attached to the [ Project ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Project)by the

`EncryptionPlugin`

`encryption`

.| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`File` |
| Location where the encryption properties file should be generated/administered at resp. deployed from. Contains encryption configurations. Each encryption configuration has an (automatically generated) ID and an algorithm. Also exactly one encryption configuration is marked as default configuration. The default configuration is used for all encryption processes. Non-default configurations are used to decrypt data encrypted when those configurations where marked as default. |
|
`File` | `keystoreFile` | Location where the Java Cryptography Extension keystore file should be generated/administered at resp. deployed from. Contains a Java Cryptography Extension key for each encryption configuration in the encryption properties file. The keystore is protected against unwanted reading and writing by a password. The password is calculated from several different pieces of data. One of them is contained in the properties file, another is the content of the random file. | <directory of settings.gradle>/intershop.keystore if
`AssemblyDeploymentPlugin` |
`File` | `randomFile` | Location where the random file should be generated/administered at resp. deployed from. Used to provide a large, high entropy piece of data for the keystore password. | <directory of settings.gradle>/random if
`AssemblyDeploymentPlugin` |
`String` | `algorithm` | Algorithm that should be used for encryption. Must be of the form If the algorithm of the default encryption in the encryption properties differs from this algorithm, a new default encryption will be created by the | `PBEWithMD5AndTripleDES` |
`String` | `propertiesTargetPath` | Path relative to IS_SHARE that the encryption properties file should be deployed to and read from by the deployed Intershop 7. | `system/config/cluster/encryption.properties` |
`String` | `keystoreTargetPath ` | Path relative to IS_SHARE that the keystore file should be deployed to and read from by the deployed Intershop 7. | `system/config/cluster/intershop.keystore` |
`String` | `randomTargetPath ` | Path relative to IS_SHARE that the random file should be deployed to and read from by the deployed Intershop 7. | `system/config/cluster/random` |

The following table gives an overview over all tasks created by deployment plugins, if they are applied to a Gradle `Project`

.

| Type | Name | Description | Depends on | Added by Plugin |
|---|---|---|---|---|
```
``` | `deploy<name>Files` | Added for each
`FileDeployment` |

`ResourceDeploymentExtension`

`FileDeployment`

. Deploys the files of that `FileDeployment`

declaration.```
```[DefaultTask](http://www.gradle.org/docs/1.8/javadoc/org/gradle/api/DefaultTask.html)

`deployFiles`

`deploy<name>Files`

tasks of the project.`deploy<name>Files`

```
```[DeployLinksTask](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DeployLinksTask)

`deployLinks`

`LinkDeployment`

```
```[ResourceDeploymentExtension](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-ResourceDeploymentExtension).

```
```[DeployDirectoriesTask](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DeployDirectoriesTask)

`deployDirectories`

`DirectoryDeployment`

```
```[ResourceDeploymentExtension](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-ResourceDeploymentExtension).

```
```[DeployP](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DeployLinksTask)
[ermissionsTask](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DeployPermissionsTask)

`deployPermissions`

```
```[ResourceDeploymentExtension](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-ResourceDeploymentExtension).

```
```[DeployWindowsServiceTask](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DeployWindowsServiceTask)

`deploy<name>`

Added for each [WindowsServiceDeployment](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-WindowsServiceDeployment) in the [ ResourceDeploymentExtension ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-ResourceDeploymentExtension), <name> being the name of the

```
WindowsServiceDeployment
```

. Creates a post-install batch script for registering the service.These tasks are only created when running the deployment on Windows.

```
```[DeployLinuxServiceTask](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DeployLinuxServiceTask)

`deploy<name>`

Added for each [LinuxServiceDeployment](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-LinuxServiceDeployment) in the [ ResourceDeploymentExtension ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-ResourceDeploymentExtension), <name> being the name of the

```
LinuxServiceDeployment
```

. Creates a post-install shell script for deploying and registering theThese tasks are only created when running the deployment on Linux.

```
```[PostInstallInformationTask](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-PostInstallInformationTask)

`postInstallMessage`

```
```[PostInstallProducer](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-PostInstallProducer).

```
```[DefaultTask](http://www.gradle.org/docs/1.8/javadoc/org/gradle/api/DefaultTask.html)

`deployCartridges`

Deploys multiple cartridges. By default all cartridges specified in property `sourceCartridges`

of the [ DeveloperExtension ](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1789927162/Reference+-+Gradle+Deployment+Tools#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DeveloperExtension)are deployed.

You can also specify a whitespace-delimited list of cartridge names in extra project property `cartridges`

, e.g., passing in `-Pcartridges="core bc_foundation"`

.

`deployFiles `

of selected cartridges

**Gradle Tools version >= 2.0:** `deployCartridgeListFiles`


```
```[IndexingFinalizerTask](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-IndexingFinalizerTask)

`persistIndex`

`IndexedTask`

```
```[AssemblyDeploymentPlugin](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-AssemblyDeploymentPlugin)

```
```[DefaultTask](http://www.gradle.org/docs/1.8/javadoc/org/gradle/api/DefaultTask.html)


`deploy`

`deployFiles, deployLinks, deployDirectories, deployPermissions`

of all projects```
```[AssemblyDeploymentPlugin](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-AssemblyDeploymentPlugin)

```
```[DefaultTask](http://www.gradle.org/docs/1.8/javadoc/org/gradle/api/DefaultTask.html)


`undeploy`

`undeploy`

, as obsolete resources will automatically be removed by the `persistIndex`

task.```
```[AssemblyDeploymentPlugin](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-AssemblyDeploymentPlugin)

```
```[DefaultTask](http://www.gradle.org/docs/1.8/javadoc/org/gradle/api/DefaultTask.html)

`undeployServices`

```
```[AssemblyDeploymentPlugin](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-AssemblyDeploymentPlugin)

**Gradle tools version >= 2.0:**

| Type | Name | Description | Depends on | Added by Plugin |
|---|---|---|---|---|
```
``` | `generateEncryptionConfig` | Creates the encryption configuration files as specified in the
`EncryptionExtension` |

`algorithm`

property of the `EncryptionExtension`

does not match the algorithm of the current default encryption configuration. Otherwise does nothing.```
```[EncryptionAdminPlugin](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-EncryptionAdminPlugin)

```
```[DefaultTask](http://www.gradle.org/docs/1.8/javadoc/org/gradle/api/DefaultTask.html)

`newKey`

```
```[EncryptionAdminPlugin](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-EncryptionAdminPlugin)

```
```[DefaultTask](http://www.gradle.org/docs/1.8/javadoc/org/gradle/api/DefaultTask.html)

`newPassword`

```
```[EncryptionAdminPlugin](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-EncryptionAdminPlugin)

```
```[DefaultTask](http://www.gradle.org/docs/1.8/javadoc/org/gradle/api/DefaultTask.html)

`encrypt`

Encrypts text using the default encryption configuration, found in encryption configuration files as specified by [ EncryptionExtension.](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-EncryptionExtension)

Expects the plain text to encrypt in the project property `plainText`

, e.g., passing in `-PplainText=somethingToEncrypt`

.

`generateEncryptionConfig`

```
```[EncryptionAdminPlugin](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-EncryptionAdminPlugin)

```
```[DefaultTask](http://www.gradle.org/docs/1.8/javadoc/org/gradle/api/DefaultTask.html)

`decrypt`

Decrypts text previously encrypted by Intershop 7 or the `encrypt`

task.

Expects the encrypted text to decrypt in the project property `encryptedText`

, e.g., passing in `-P`

`encryptedText`

=

`encryption1`

`@PBEWithMD5AndTripleDes`

`:5FY97GDnsvU=|3viFU8xFc1XmMhLnPXeWcVWDGgX/WUta`

.`generateEncryptionConfig`

```
```[EncryptionAdminPlugin](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-EncryptionAdminPlugin)

All types in this chapter extend from [ Task](http://www.gradle.org/docs/1.8/dsl/org.gradle.api.Task.html), see its methods and properties.

`com.intershop.deploy.resources.DeployFiles`

Copies files and adds them to an index. It handles files modified since last deployment using a given set of modification handlers. Also it applies a set of content filters during copying.

The task collects all errors occurring during processing and displays them at the end.

Extends [ Copy ](http://www.gradle.org/docs/1.8/dsl/org.gradle.api.tasks.Copy.html) and

```
```[IndexedTask](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-IndexedTask)

, see their methods and properties.| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
```
``` | `filters` | Content filters to apply. | |
```
``` | `modificationHandlers` | Modification handlers for deciding how to treat files that have been modified since last deployment. | |
```
``` | `resources` | Index used to register file resources and for checking for modifications. |

`com.intershop.deploy.resources.DeployDirectoriesTask`

Creates all directories declared as [ DirectoryDeployment ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DirectoryDeployment)in a

`ResourceDeploymentExtension`

Extends ```
```

, see its methods and properties.[IndexedTask](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-IndexedTask)

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`Collection<` | `directories` | Directories to be deployed. | |
```
``` | `resources` | Index used to register directory resources. |

` com.intershop.deploy.resources.DeployLinksTask`

Creates a set of symbolic links and adds them to an index. It handles links modified since last deployment using a given set of modification handlers.

Extends ```
```

, see its methods and properties.[IndexedTask](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-IndexedTask)

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`Collection<` | `links` | Links to deploy. | |
```
``` | `resources` | Index used to register link resources. | |
```
``` | ```
modificationHandlers
``` | Modification handlers for deciding how to treat links that have been modified since last deployment. |

`com.intershop.deploy.resources.DeployPermissionsTask`

Applies all POSIX file permissions declared by [ PermissionDeployment ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-PermissionDeployment) objects in a

```
```[ResourceDeploymentExtension](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-ResourceDeploymentExtension)

. Applied permissions are not added to an index.| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
```
``` | `deploymentConfig` | Container for permissions to be deployed. |

`com.intershop.deploy.services.linux.DeployLinuxServiceTask`

Creates post-install shell scripts for deploying and registering a script in */etc/init.d*.

Extends ```
```

, [PostInstallProducer](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-PostInstallProducer)```
```

, see their methods and properties.[IndexedTask](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-IndexedTask)

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
```
``` | `serviceDeployment` | Service for which to create the post-install script. |

`com.intershop.deploy.services.linux.DeployWindowsServiceTask`

Creates post-install batch scripts for registering a Windows service.

Extends ```
```

, [PostInstallProducer](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-PostInstallProducer)```
```

, see their methods and properties.[IndexedTask](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-IndexedTask)

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
```
``` | `serviceDeployment` | Service for which to create the post-install script. |

`com.intershop.deploy.postinstall.PostInstallInformationTask`

Displays a message about all post-install scripts created.

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`Collection<` | `postInstallProducer` | Providers of post-install scripts. |

`com.intershop.deploy.index.IndexingFinalizerTask`

Removes obsolete resources (files, directories, links) and writes the in-memory index to an index file. The [ AssemblyDeploymentPlugin ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-AssemblyDeploymentPlugin)creates an instance of this task and adds it as a Gradle finalizer to all tasks marked with

`IndexedTask`

The `IndexingFinalizerTask`

undeploys a [Resource](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Resource) if:

`desired`

of this resource to true (e.g., the file is no longer contained in the `undeploy`

was calledThe `IndexingFinalizerTask`

does *not* undeploy a resource if:

`deployFiles`

task of one component, the files of other components are kept) orAlso it is possible to move a `Resource`

between different tasks (e.g., a file was deployed by one component in the last run, but is now deployed by another). This also keeps the file.

A resource is undeployed by calling a registered [ UndeploymentHandler ](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1789927162/Reference+-+Gradle+Deployment+Tools#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-UndeploymentHandler)matching its type. The

`UndeploymentHandler`

provided by the `AssemblyDeploymentPlugin`

handle all predefined resource types. If a file is removed and the parent directory becomes empty, this directory will also be removed. For further details on removing directories and files created by non-deployment processes, see ```
```[DirectoryDeployment](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DirectoryDeployment)

.| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
| `index` | In-memory index. | |
`File` | `location` | File to store index in. |

| Return Type | Method Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
`void` | ```
registerUndeploymentHandler(Class<? extends
``` | Adds an undeployment handler for a special type of resource. |

`org.gradle.api.initialization.Settings`

This is a standard Gradle type. See Gradle's [DSL Reference on it](http://www.gradle.org/docs/1.8/dsl/org.gradle.api.initialization.Settings.html).

The type is listed here because Intershop Deployment plugins add custom methods/properties, see below.

`DeploymentBootstrapPlugin`

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
```
``` | `deploymentBootstrap` | Extension to configure loading of an assembly for deployment (read-only) |

`org.gradle.api.Project`

This is a standard Gradle type. See Gradle's [DSL Reference on it](http://www.gradle.org/docs/1.8/dsl/org.gradle.api.Project.html).

The type is listed here because Intershop Deployment plugins add custom methods/properties, see below.

| Added by | Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|---|
```
``` | `deploymentBootstrap` | Extension to configure loading of an assembly for deployment. Added to the root project, so it is possible to query selected host type/environment/assembly etc (read-only) | ||
```
``` | ```
self
``` | Component and version from which this project was created (read-only) | ||
```
``` | ```
``` | `deployment` | Extension for configuring deployment of files, directories, links, services (read-only) | |
```
``` | ```
``` | `appserver` | Extension for configuring Intershop 7 nodemanager and appserver instances (read-only) | |
```
``` | ```
``` | `database` | Extension for configuring database connection (read-only) | |
```
``` | ```
``` | `developer` | Extension for providing configuration only needed during development (read-only) | |
```
``` | ```
``` | `license` | Extension for providing a license.xml file (read-only) | |
```
``` | ```
``` | `multicast` | Extension for providing multicast configuration (read-only) | |
```
``` | ```
``` | `staging` | Extension for providing staging configuration (read-only) | |
```
``` | ```
``` | `webadapter` | Extension for configuring Apache and Web Adapter (read-only) | |
```
``` | ```
``` | `assemblyDeployment` | Extension for providing configuration common to the assembly and all components (read-only) | |
```
``` | ```
``` | `target` | Extension for configuring target system and locations of the deployment (read-only) | |
```
``` | ```
``` | `cartridgeDeployment` | Extension for configuring the deployment of a cartridge (read-only) | |
`EncryptionPlugin` |

`EncryptionExtension`

`encryption`

**Only for Gradle tools version >= 2.0**

Extension for providing locations of encryption configuration files during administration and in the application server (read-only)

`com.intershop.deploy.settings.HostType`

A host type of the deployed assembly. Instances are created by the [ HostTypeSettingsPlugin](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-HostTypeSettingsPlugin).

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`String` | `name` | Name of the host type (read-only) | |
| `includeCartridges` | Flag that indicates whether cartridge subsets should be deployed if this host type is selected (read-only) | |
`boolean` | `includeShare` | Flag that indicates whether deployed components should deploy their share specific parts (read-only) | |
`boolean` | `includeLocal` | Flag that indicates whether deployed components should deploy their local specific parts (read-only) | |
`boolean` | `includeJavadoc` | Flag that indicates whether Javadoc should be deployed if this host type is selected (read-only) | |
`List<String>` | `configurations` | Names of assembly configurations that are associated with this host type (read-only) |

`com.intershop.deploy.settings.Environment`

An environment of the deployed assembly. Instances are created by the [ HostTypeSettingsPlugin](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-HostTypeSettingsPlugin).

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`String` | `name` | Name of the environment (read-only) | |
| `cartridgeConfiguration` | Name of the assembly configuration that contains the cartridges associated with this environment (read-only) |

`com.intershop.deploy.resources.FileDeployment`

A set of files to be deployed. Instances are created in the container `files`

of the [ ResourceDeploymentExtension](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-ResourceDeploymentExtension).

A `FileDeployment`

is a Gradle [ CopySpec](http://www.gradle.org/docs/1.8/javadoc/org/gradle/api/file/CopySpec.html). Use the methods/properties of the

`CopySpec`

to describe which files/file trees to deploy and where to deploy them to. See also Gradle's user guide on A source to copy from that is especially useful during deployment are `ArtifactFileTree`

objects returned by the `artifacts`

method of the `ResourceDeploymentExtension`

. You are not limited to using these as source though and may deploy from any source that `CopySpec`

supports.

No Warning for empty FileDeployments

Like a Gradle `CopySpec`

, a `FileDeployment`

that does not contain any files to copy (e.g., because includes are defined but match no source file) does not lead to an error. Instead the corresponding `DeployFiles`

task always displays as 'UP-TO-DATE' when executed. This is especially confusing if you add a `File`

object with the `from `

method and the file is missing. In this case also no error is thrown.

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`String` | `name` | Name of the set of files to deploy. Only used for identification of the declaration (read-only) |

`com.intershop.deploy.resources.LinkDeployment`

A single symbolic link to be deployed. The actual physical form of the link is operating and file system dependent, see [documentation of Java NIO](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/io/links.html), which is used for managing links.

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`String` | `name` | Name of the the link deployment. Only used for identification of the declaration (read-only) | |
`File` | `from` | Location of the link | |
`File` | `to` | Target of the link |

`com.intershop.deploy.resources.DirectoryDeployment`

A single directory that should be created during deployment. While parent directories for deployed files are created automatically, this allows to ensure the existence of empty directories.

To allow purging of files created by the deployed application (like log files) a `DirectoryDeployment`

must be declared. When a directory created through a `DirectoryDeployment`

is no longer desired, like because the component that declared it is no longer deployed, all files unknown to the deployment are purged from that directory. (Ultimately when all deployed files have been deleted from the directory, the directory itself is deleted.) You can enable/disable this behavior by settings the property `purgeUnknownFiles`

of the ```
```

. The purging itself is taking place in the [AssemblyDeploymentExtension](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-AssemblyDeploymentExtension)[ IndexingFinalizerTask](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-IndexingFinalizerTask).

The folders* IS_SHARE * and *IS_HOME* are declared as `DirectoryDeployment`

. So is the cartridge folder of each cartridge. This way unknown files inside the cartridge folder are already purged when the cartridge is undeployed, not only with undeployment of the complete *IS_SHARE*.

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`String` | `name` | Name of the directory deployment. Only used for identification of the declaration (read-only) | |
`File` | `path` | Location of the directory |

`com.intershop.deploy.resources.PermissionDeployment`

A POSIX file mode applied to a file or directory.

The use of `PermissionDeployment`

has the following limitations:

`PermissionDeployment`

objects are ignored.`PermissionDeployment`

declarations apply different permissions to the same files, the behavior is undefined. This especially occurs if one `PermissionDeployment`

applies to a directory and other `PermissionDeployment`

declarations apply to files/directories nested in that directory.If you need more control over permissions, please use configuration management/admin tools (like Chef or puppet) or automate calls to OS commands like `chown`

/`chmod`

resp. `CACLS`

.

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`String` | `name` | Name of the permission deployment. Only used for identification of the declaration (read-only) | |
`File` | `to` | File or directory to apply permissions to. If a directory, permissions applied recursively to all files and directories. | |
`String` | `mode` | String of 9 characters ('x', 'r', 'w', '-') representing permissions for the file owner, group and others. For details see
|

`com.intershop.deploy.resources.ServiceDeploymentContainer`

A container for declaring windows and linux services.

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
```
``` | `windows` | Services to deployed on Windows. Ignored if the deployment is run on Linux (read-only) | |
```
linux
``` | Services to deployed on Linux. Ignored if the deployment is run on Windows (read-only) |

`com.intershop.deploy.resources.WindowsServiceDeployment`

A windows service to be deployed.

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`String` | `name` | Name of the service deployment. Only used for identification of the declaration (read-only) | |
```
String
``` | ```
serviceName
``` | Name of the service (ID). | |
```
String
``` | ```
displayName
``` | Display name of the service. | |
```
List<String>
``` | ```
command
``` | Executable and arguments for starting the service. | |
```
String
``` | ```
user
``` | User to execute the service with. May be the name of a local user or a domain user of the form '<DOMAIN>\<USER>' | |
| WindowsServiceDeployment.StartupType | `startupType` | When to start the service.
| DISABLED |

`com.intershop.deploy.resources.LinuxServiceDeployment`

A linux service (init.d script) to be deployed.

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`String` | `name` | Name of the service deployment. Only used for identification of the declaration (read-only) | |
`String` | `serviceName` | File name used inside /etc/init.d. | Name of file `serviceScript` |
`File` | `serviceScript` | File to copy the script from. This may be a file deployed through a `FileDeployment` or any non-deployed file. | |
`Collection<Integer>` | `runLevels` | Run levels to add the service too via `chkconfig` . | (empty collection) |

`com.intershop.deploy.resources.ArtifactFileTree`

A [ FileTree ](http://www.gradle.org/docs/1.8/javadoc/org/gradle/api/file/FileTree.html) resulting from downloading an Ivy artifact (or the

`artifacts`

of the `ResourceDeploymentExtension`

To compute the resulting `FileTree`

:

`metaData`

, `type`

and closures passed to the `matchingArtifacts`

method. `extract`

either these artifacts are returned as files or – assuming that they are Extends Gradle's ```
```

, see its methods and properties.[File](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-FileSpec)
[Tree](http://www.gradle.org/docs/1.8/javadoc/org/gradle/api/file/FileTree.html)

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`boolean` | `extract` | If If | `false` |
`boolean` | `metaData` | If If | `false` |
`String` | `type` | If set, only artifacts with this artifact type match. (The artifact type is defined in the ivy.xml file.) | `null` |

| Return Type | Method Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
`void` | `artifactsMatching(Closure closure)` | Adds a closure to filter artifacts. The closure is called for each artifact and passed a
|

`com.intershop.deploy.filters.DeploymentContentFilter`

An instruction for a set of deployed files to deploy a content that is changed compared to the content of the source files.

To create a custom deployment content filter, extend ```
```

.[AbstractDeploymentContentFilter](https://knowledge.intershop.com#DeploymentContentFilter)

Extends ```
```

, see its methods and properties.[FileSpec](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-FileSpec)

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`String` | `name` | Name of the filter. Only used for identification of the declaration (read-only) |

`com.intershop.deploy.filters.AbstractDeploymentContentFilter`

Abstract base class for creating deployment content filters. The only method required to be implemented is `configureNormalizedFilter`

.

Implements ```
```

, see its methods and properties.[DeploymentContentFilter](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DeploymentContentFilter)

| Return Type | Method Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
`void` | `configureNormalizedFilter(` | Called to transform the The implementation should call the provided |

`com.intershop.deploy.utils.FileSpec`

A file matcher. The set of files matched is determined by a directory `dir`

and an arbitrary number of includes and excludes.

Includes and excludes can be provided by:

` dir`

,`File`

object and returning `true`

or `false`

(the represented file may not exist, yet, for initial deployments)If a file is matched by a `FileSpec`

if:

`dir`

or one of its subdirectories and| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`File` | `dir` | Directory that files must be located in to match the `FileSpec` . |

| Return Type | Method Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
`void` |
| Alias for setting the
|
`void ` | `include(Iterable<String> includes)` | Includes files based on Ant style patterns.
|
`void ` | `include(String... includes)` | Includes files based on Ant style patterns.
|
`void` | `include(Closure<?> include)` | Includes files based on a closure. The closure is passed a
|
`void` | `exclude(Iterable<String> excludes)` | Excludes files based on Ant style patterns.
|
`void` | `exclude(String... excludes)` | Excludes files based on Ant style patterns.
|
`void` | `exclude(Closure<?> exclude)` | Excludes files based on a closure. The closure is passed a
|

`com.intershop.deploy.filters.OverridePropertiesFilter`

Filter that modifies *properties*-files based on a `Map`

. The filter overwrites properties that already exists in the *properties*-file, otherwise adds a new property to the file.

Extends

, see its methods and properties.[DeploymentContentFilter](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DeploymentContentFilter)

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`Map<String, Object>` | `properties` | Map with each key being a property name and the corresponding value its property value. If the value is not a string, it is converted using the |
|

`com.intershop.deploy.filters.PlaceholderReplacementFilter`

Filter that replaces placeholders. The filter treats all substrings of the file that start and end with specific tokens as a placeholder and takes the string in between for its name (placeholders never span across lines). If the Map `placeholders`

contains a value for a placeholder, the filter replaces the placeholders, otherwise leaves the placeholder untouched.

Extends ```
```

, see its methods and properties.[DeploymentContentFilter](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DeploymentContentFilter)

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`Map<String, Object>` | `placeholders` | Map with each key being a placeholder name and the corresponding value its replacement. If the value is not a string, it is converted using the `toString` method. |
|

`String`

`beginToken`

`String`

`endToken`

`com.intershop.deploy.filters.XmlContentFilter`

Filter that modifies matching *xml*-files using a given list of closures.

Extends ```
```

, see its methods and properties. [DeploymentContentFilter](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DeploymentContentFilter)

| Return Type | Method Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
`void` |
| Adds a closure to modify matching files. The filter passes in an Multiple closures are executed in the order of calls to
|

`com.intershop.deploy.filters.EditLinesFilter`

Filter that modifies matching files by running a given closure on each line.

Extends ```
```

, see its methods and properties.[DeploymentContentFilter](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DeploymentContentFilter)

| Return Type | Method Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
`void` |
| Adds a closure to modify matching files. The filter calls the closure for each line of each matching file. The closure is passed the line (stripped of line endings) and should return a Multiple closures are executed in the order of calls to
|

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.OpenDebugPortFilter`

Filter that uncomments lines containing '-XDebug' in bash and shell scripts and sets a debug port.

Extends ```
```

, see its methods and properties.[DeploymentContentFilter](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DeploymentContentFilter)

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`int` | `debugPort` | Port to use for the `address` parameter of the '-XDebug' directive. | n.a. |

`com.intershop.deploy.filters.FullContentFilter`

Filter that reads the whole file content into a `StringBuilder`

and passes this to a given closure, which may modify the contents arbitrarily. Use it only for text files and files that have reasonable sizes, since the full file content will be loaded into memory at once.

Extends ```
```

, see its methods and properties.[DeploymentContentFilter](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DeploymentContentFilter)

| Return Type | Method Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
`void` |
| Adds a closure to modify matching files. The filter calls the closure passing in a Changes to the content of the Multiple closures are executed in the order of calls to
|

`com.intershop.deploy.modification.ModificationHandlerRegistry`

Container for modification handlers. Use for implementing custom resource tasks that should take the registered modification handlers into account.

| Return Type | Method Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
```
getModificationHandler(File file)
``` | Finds the matching
| |
| ```
addModificationHandlers(Collection<ModificationHandler> newHandlers)
``` | Adds the given modification handlers to the registry.
|

` com.intershop.deploy.modification.ModificationHandler`

Strategy that declares how to proceed during deployment if a non-deployed content/state would be overwritten. Modification handlers work with all physical resources that can be represented by a Java `File`

object, e.g., files, directories and links.

The modification handler is called if:

`File`

was deployed previously, but its contents has since been changed by non-deployment processes.`File`

was created previously by a non-deployment process.`File`

was deployed previously, but was deleted by a non-deployment process.A `ModificationHandler`

d efines a file matcher to specify which files this strategy applies to (see ```
```

).[FileSpec](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-FileSpec)

Each `ModificationHandler`

is assigned to a priority (an arbitrary name). Priorities are sorted using property `modificationPriorities `

of the [ ResourceDeploymentExtension](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-ResourceDeploymentExtension). If multiple modification handlers match the same file, the modification handler with the highest priority is executed.

To create a custom modification handler, extend ```
```

.[AbstractModificationHandler](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-AbstractModificationHandler)

Extends [FileSpec](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-FileSpec), see its methods and properties.

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`String` | `name` | Name of the modification handler. Only used for identification of the declaration (read-only) | |
`String` | `priority` | Priority to assign modification handler to |

| Return Type | Method Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
`String` | `priority(String name)` | Alias for setting property
|

`com.intershop.deploy.modification.AbstractModificationHandler`

Abstract base class for creating modification handlers. The only method required to be implemented is `handle`

.

Implements ```
```

, see its methods and properties.[ModificationHandler](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-ModificationHandler)

| Return Type | Method Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
`boolean` | `handle(File modifiedFile)` | The implementation of this method determines the actual strategy. The Returns Optionally performs additional actions (e.g., backup the modified file) before returning.
|

`com.intershop.deploy.modification.OverwriteModificationHandler`

Issues a warning and overwrites the modified file. Using this may result in loss of data. Extends ```
```

, see its methods and properties.[M](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DeploymentContentFilter)[odificationHandler](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-ModificationHandler)

If the file was not modified, but deleted, the file is restored by the deployment.

`com.intershop.deploy.modification.KeepModificationHandler`

Issues a warning and keeps the modified file. The content that should be deployed is ignored, which may result in updates being ineffective. Extends ```
```

, see its methods and properties.[M](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DeploymentContentFilter)[odificationHandler](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-ModificationHandler)

If the file was not modified, but deleted, the file is not restored by the deployment.

`com.intershop.deploy.modification.AbortModificationHandler`

Aborts the deployment if a deployed file has been modified or deleted. This prevents alteration of the modified file. This is the safest way to handle modifications. However it may prevent an unattended deployment. Extends ```
```

, see its methods and properties.[M](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DeploymentContentFilter)[odificationHandler](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-ModificationHandler)

`com.intershop.deploy.modification.BackupModificationHandler`

Creates a backup copy of the modified file first, then overwrites it.

The backup file is created in the same directory like the modified file. The file name of the backup file is the original file name, plus a configurable suffix. If the backup file already exists, a counter is appended.

If the file was not modified, but deleted, no backup is created, but the file is restored.

Extends ```
```

, see its methods and properties.[M](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DeploymentContentFilter)[odificationHandler](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-ModificationHandler)

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`String` | `suffix` | Suffix used for naming backup files. | '-backup' |

` com.intershop.deploy.postinstall.PostInstallProducer`

Interface to mark tasks that create a post-install script to be executed after the deployment with root/administrator privileges. The marked task needs to implement `getPostInstallScripts`

method or in Groovy classes provide a property `p`

`ostInstallScripts`

.

The [ AssemblyDeploymentPlugin ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-AssemblyDeploymentPlugin)adds a

```
```[PostInstallInformationTask](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-PostInstallInformationTask)

as Gradle finalizer to all tasks implementing ```
PostInstallProducer.
```

| Return Type | Method Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
```
Collection<File>
``` | `getPostInstallScripts()` | Called after execution of the task to find the post-install scripts. |

` com.intershop.deploy.index.IndexedTask`

Interface to mark tasks that create index entries and/or use the index to check for modifications. The marked task needs to implement `setResources`

method or in Groovy classes provide a property ```
resources
```

.

The [ AssemblyDeploymentPlugin ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-AssemblyDeploymentPlugin)adds an

`IndexingFinalizerTask`

`IndexedTask`

.| Return Type | Method Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
`void` | `setResources(TaskResources resources)` | Called before the execution of the task to provide the task with access to the index. |

`com.intershop.deploy.index.Index`

Structure to store [ Resource ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Resource)objects, e.g., files, links, directories, that have been created by the deployment. The resources created by each Gradle task are stored separately in a

`TaskResources`

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
```
Collection<
``` | `tasks` | All task resources objects contained in the index (read-only and immutable) |

| Return Type | Method Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
```
``` |
| Returns the
|
`TaskResources` |

```
create(String path)
```

Creates a new `TaskResources`

object for a given task.

**Parameters: **

`path– `

Path of the Gradle task.

`TaskResources`

```
reverseLookup(String resourceName)
```

Finds the task that created a resource and returns its `TaskResources`

object. Return null if none is found.

**Parameters: **

`name– `

Name of the resource. For resources representable by a Java `File`

object (files, directories, links), this is the absolute path.

`com.intershop.deploy.index.TaskResources`

Structure to store `Resource`

objects, e.g., files, links, directories, created by a single task.

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`String` | `name` | Path of the Gradle task that this object belongs to (read-only) | |
```
Collection<
``` | `resources` | All indexed resources of this specific task (read-only and immutable) |

| Return Type | Method Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
`Resource` | ```
getAt(String resourceName)
``` | Returns the Resource for a given name or
|
```
<Textends Resource> T
``` |
| Creates a new
```
``` . |

` com.intershop.deploy.index.Resource`

Index entry for some physical system resource created by the deployment. See sub-types [ F ileResource](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-FileResource), [LinkResource](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-LinkResource), [DirectoryResource](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DirectoryResource), [WindowsServiceResource](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-WindowsServiceResource), [LinuxServiceResource](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-LinuxServiceResource).

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`String` | `name` | Name of the resource. For resources representable by a Java The name must be unique among all resources contained in the index. | |
`boolean` | `desired` | Determines whether the resource is still part of the desired state. If | `false` |

`com.intershop.deploy.index.FileResource`

Index entry for a file created by the deployment.

Extends [Resource](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Resource) , see its methods and properties.

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`long` | `lastModified` | The "last modified"-timestamp of the file after last deployment. If the index entry was just created | |
`long` | `size` | The size of the file (in bytes) after last deployment. If the index entry was just created size is `-1` (read-only) | |
`byte[]` | `sha1Sum` | Checksum of the file content after last deployment using the sha-1 algorithm. If the index entry was just created `sha1Sum` is `null` (read-only) |

`com.intershop.deploy.index.DirectoryResource`

Index entry for a directory created by the deployment. Note that most directories created by the deployment are not listed as an index entry. See [ DirectoryDeployment](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-DirectoryDeployment).

Extends [Resource](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Resource), see its methods and properties.

`com.intershop.deploy.index.LinkResource`

Index entry for a symbolic link created by the deployment.

Extends [Resource](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Resource), see its methods and properties.

` com.intershop.deploy.index.LinuxServiceResource`

Index entry for a Linux service (*/etc/init.d* script) created by the deployment.

Extends [Resource](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Resource), see its methods and properties.

` com.intershop.deploy.index.WindowsServiceResource`

Index entry for a Windows service created by the deployment.

Extends [Resource](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-Resource), see its methods and properties.

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.Appserver`

Intershop 7 appserver (runtime) instance.

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`String` | `name ` | Name of the appserver instance. Convention is to use `appserver<n>` (read-only) | |
`int` | `tomcatShutdownPort` | TCP port used to trigger a shutdown of the tomcat. | n.a. |
`int` | ```
tomcatHttpPort
``` | TCP port of the tomcat for HTTP communication. | n.a. |
`int` | `tomcatHttpsPort` | TCP port of the tomcat for HTTPS communication. | n.a. |
`int` | `appserverPort` | Servlet engine connector port. | n.a. |
`Collection<String>` | `serverGroups` | Server groups the appserver should be assigned to. If empty, the default server groups 'WFS', 'BOS', 'JOB' are assigned. | empty collection |

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.TomcatServer`

*This type is newly introduced with Gradle Tools 2.0.*

Descriptor for a Tomcat servlet container instance.

This object is extensible and may be extended via the `TomcatServer.ext`

extension. By default, ```
```

is added as [JvmArgsExtension](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-JvmArgs)
`ext.jvmArgs`

.

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`String` | `name ` | Name of the servlet container instance (read-only) | |
`int` | ```
port
``` | TCP port of the tomcat for HTTP communication. | n.a. |
`int` | `securePort` | TCP port of the tomcat for HTTPS communication. | n.a. |
`int` | ```
shutdownPort
``` | TCP port used to trigger a shutdown of the tomcat. | n.a. |

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.JvmArgsExtension`

*This type is newly introduced with Gradle Tools 2.0.*

Configures start parameters of a JVM instance. May be used as extension for [TomcatServer](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-TomcatServer).

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`int` | `minHeapSize` | Initial size of the Java heap in MB | not required |
`int` | `maxHeapSize` | Maximum size to which the Java heap can grow in MB | not required |
`List<String>` | `additionalJvmArgs` | Additional command line parameters for the JVM | empty `List` |
`String` | ```
jvmArgs
``` | Compound String for all JVM arguments (read-only) |

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.AppserverTomcatExtension`

*This extension is newly introduced with Gradle Tools 2.0.*

This is an extension to [TomcatServer](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-GradleDeploymentTools-TomcatServer) and configures the given instance to be an Intershop 7 application server.

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`int` | `port` | Servlet engine connector port. | n.a. |
`Set<String>` | `serverGroups` | Server groups the appserver should be assigned to. If empty, the default server groups 'WFS', 'BOS', 'JOB' are assigned. | empty set |

`com.intershop.deploy.intershop.MulticastMessenger`

Configuration for a single multicast channel. *(Available since Gradle tools version 1.1)*

| Type | Property Name | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|---|
`String` | `name ` | Name of the multicast channel (read-only) | |
`String` | `address` | TCP/IP address for broadcasting multicast events. Cluster-wide configuration – needs to be specified in deployment of host type 'share'. | n.a. |
`int` | `port` | Private port to bind multicast connection. Cluster-wide configuration – needs to be specified in deployment of host type 'share'. | n.a. |
`String` | networkInterface | TCP/IP address of network interface. If none set, the multicast connection will be bound to all interfaces. Host-specific configuration – needs to be specified in deployment of host type 'appserver'. | null |

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.