---
id: '673d3cba0c6e82d6fe0c1bf49c9f4118'
title: 'jQuery 3 Migration'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/28948K'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:38:18.467871+00:00'
---
Starting with version 7.0.0 of the Responsive Starter Store (depending on ICM 7.10.5.0), the current jQuery 3.3.1 is used instead of 1.11.3. All Javascript code of the Responsive Starter Store *(a_responsive)* was migrated to this new jQuery version.

With this migration all the used [t](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1868792453/Reference+-+Responsive+Starter+Store+-+3rd+Party+JavaScript)[hird party libaries](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1868792453/Reference+-+Responsive+Starter+Store+-+3rd+Party+JavaScript) were updated to their latest versions as well and adapted where necessary.

Basically, the following steps have been done for the standard *a_responsive* code for the jQuery 3 migration:

The migration steps 2 to 4 have to be done for project specific Javascript code or customizations of the standard Javascript, too.

jQuery provides an [upgrade guide](https://jquery.com/upgrade-guide/3.0/) that includes information about important changes in jQuery version 3.x, browser support and the jQuery Migrate Plugin.

The [jQuery Migrate Plugin](https://github.com/jquery/jquery-migrate/#README) supports the migration of Javascript code written with previous jQuery versions to be compatible with jQuery version 3.x. It is recommended to use this plugin's uncompressed version as an upgrading tool. When browsing the Responsive Starter Store with the activated jQuery migration plugin, specific advice about most of the major changes that may affect your code is provided (see screenshot).

The use of the jQuery Migrate Plugin is prepared. Both the uncompressed and the compressed version are included in *a_responsive* and can be activated in the *BaseJS.isml* file.

The compressed version of the jQuery Migrate Plugin does not generate any warnings. It can be used on production sites when older, not yet migrated, incompatible Javascript code or plugins still need to be used.

Use the following steps to upgrade your javascript code:

The currently still used [YUI Compressor](http://yui.github.io/yuicompressor/) for bundling and compressing the Javascript code of *a_responsive* cannot handle all current ways of writing Javascript. It does not work together with the *jquery-3.3.1.js.* For that reason the jQuery library is no longer included in the isfilebundle, but directly referenced in its minified version *jquery-3.3.1.min.js,* see *BaseJS.isml.* All other standard Responsive Starter Store Javascript code still works fine with the JScompressor.

` `

To work around problems with the YUI Compressor, you can either reference problematic Javascript libraries directly in the ISML or you need to translate to modern Javascript expressions to an older way of implementing the same functionality.

To initially test and migrate your Javascript code without problems introduced by the YUI Compressor, you can disable the processing via *development.properties* with the following two settings:

intershop.template.isfilebundle.Process=false intershop.template.isfilebundle.Combine=false

After a successful migration these settings need to be re-enabled to check if the YUI Compressor is still working without any compression errors. To do this, see the server log for errors. In addition to that, the functionality of the compressed Javascript in the browser needs to be checked, too. To do this, check the browser console logs to make sure there are no errors introduced by the compression.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.