---
id: '67a23cf41468a01f6d57b3fdbb1fd1ea'
title: 'Navigation'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3375C2'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:30:56.344421+00:00'
---
This screen is subdivided into two areas: a navigation bar on the left and the main page area on the right, which displays lists or dialogs associated with the module selected in the navigation bar.

The navigation bar comprises the following sections:

Schedules

Allows for controlling scheduled jobs in the Intershop Commerce Management system, see Schedules.

Logging

Allows for specifying the level of detail recorded in the application log files, see Logging.

File Browser

Enables Intershop Commerce Management directory browsing and zip-compressed download from Intershop System Management, see File Browser.

Site Management

Allows for controlling global settings for the sites served by the Intershop Commerce Management system, see Site Management.

Allows for collecting vital information about the Intershop Commerce Management system and transferring it to Intershop Support, see Installation Maintenance.

In addition, the quick access buttons located above the main page area provide immediate access to certain functionalities:

Home

Opens the front end start page.

Change Password

Opens the user detail view for the current user (admin) to change the password.

Help

Opens the Intershop System Management User Manual.

Logout

Logs out the user (admin) from the current session and displays the log on screen.

Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.