---
id: '68b6a257f62c1cea3c22a00061de1f36'
title: 'Managing Transmissions'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/4D0795'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:30:43.287795+00:00'
---
# Managing Transmissions

The section Transmissions contains a widget to search for all or a
subset of transmissions. A transmission is a message with a business context that should
be sent or accepted, e.g. pushing an order to other applications. This section describes
tasks related to transmissions. This includes:

## Searching Transmissions

-
Go to Transmissions.
This opens the Transmission search widget.
- Select the mandatory search parameter Group.
- Select the optional search parameters Created, Type, Order number, Invoice number, Shop/Supplier, Processing status, Type of receiver, and Response status.
-
Click Find.
This displays the list of transmissions on the result page. You can page through the results, sort them by columns as well as show and hide certain columns.

## Performing Bulk Actions on Transmissions

-
Search for transmissions, see
[Searching Transmissions](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iom/master/iom_en/topics/managing_transmissions/topic_managing_transmissions.html#searching_transmissions).A list of available transmissions is displayed on the result page. -
Select the transmissions for processing:
- If you want to update particular transmissions, select the checkboxes in the corresponding rows.
- If you want to update all found transmissions, click the icon and select
All.Note:The selected transmissions cannot be unchecked manually.

-
From the Choose action drop-down menu, select one of the
available bulk actions:
- Resend: Requests transmissions to be sent or resent
- Cancel: Requests the sending process to be canceled
- Mark as sent: Requests marking the transmissions as successfully sent

A confirmation dialog appears.Note:As the number of transmissions in the selected group could have changed in the meanwhile, the actual number of transmissions to be updated may differ from the current search result. -
Click Send.
The result of the request is displayed.