---
id: '68bbb2588276afdcf7ebe3c8a0e15d87'
title: 'Job'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/29497D'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:31.216249+00:00'
---
Name | Synchronize Page Model and Pagelet Instances |
|---|---|
Domain | SLDSystem |
Job Dependencies | none |
AcquiredResources | none |
Cartridge | sld_system_app |
Pipeline | SynchronizePages-Start |
Affected Domain Objects | View Contexts |
Affected Tables | CONFIGURATIONPARAMETERVIEWCONTEXT VIEWCONTEXT_AV PRODUCT_PEPA ABTESTGROUP_PA |
Stored Procedure | None |
Default State | Disabled |
Is Site Specific | False |
Edit State | Globally Enabled |
Live State | Globally Enabled |
| Server Group | JOB |
Description | This job synchronizes all existing content instances with the current content model:
|
Scheduling | This job must never be used in a production environment. It may lead to severe data loss and is meant only to support a content developer who has to deal with a lot of content model changes by preventing invalid content instances according to the content model. |
What Happens Switched Off | This job is there to ease CMS development efforts. It is only meant to be used in edit or development environments. Pagelet, ViewContext, Slot, PageletEntryPoint or other CMS objects whose defining Pagelet Model files (.pagelet2) have been changed will become outdated/invalid. If this job is not executed, these outdated or invalid objects will remain. |
Trouble Shooting | None |
Comments |

Product Version | 7.0 |
|---|---|
Product To Version | |
| Status |

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.