---
id: '68bda00894c4dc5dbccb6b4c98bd3998'
title: 'Creating Components'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/324B01'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:07.087768+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/324B01

# Creating Components

To create a new component:
-
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Components.
This opens the Components list view.

-
Click New.
The New Component dialog is displayed.

-
Specify a name for the new component.
If necessary, modify the automatically generated ID.

-
Select the component template.
Clicking the

File Select button opens a dialog for selecting a component template.

Tip: Clicking component type overview in the template selection dialog opens a list of component types, showing the parameters, slots, etc., that are available in a given management context.

-
Set the publishing status and period.
-
Click Apply.
This creates the new component and opens it in the component detail view, ready for editing, see

[Editing Components](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/content_management/topic_editing_components.html).


## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.