---
id: '68feb49c9e3ed3d014e1ab5c12702159'
title: 'Public Release Note'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/X47861'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:29:27.965482+00:00'
---
Welcome to the Intershop Recurring Order Extension, an extension that provides the Recurring Order Service and corresponding REST APIs for your Intershop Commerce Management installation.

This release note provides important insight into product version details, dependencies, and comprehensive setup and configuration instructions to optimize your integration process.

[Job - Recurring Order Schedule Service (Recurring Order Extension)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/49409687553/Job+-+Recurring+Order+Schedule+Service+Recurring+Order+Extension)

[Intershop Online Academy | Recurring Orders](https://public.academy.intershop.com/plus/catalog/courses/453): A training course on using the feature

This delivery and the accompanying documentation are valid for the following combinations of software versions:

ICM (incl. responsive) (*) | PWA (*) | Recurring Order Extension |
|---|---|---|
13.0.0+ | 5.3+ | 2.0.0, 2.1.0 |
13.2.0+ | 8.0+ | 2.2.1 |

(*) See hints (manual steps/restrictions) regarding storefront integration described in [Storefront Integration](https://knowledge.intershop.com#StorefrontIntegration).

The table below provides information about the cartridges included in the package:

Cartridge | Description | Required |
|---|---|---|
app_sf_rest_recurringorder | Contains the definition of the new major version of the Recurring Order Extension REST API 2.x.x to be used by the PWA to retrieve information and manage recurring orders. The cartridge is automatically added to the app-specific cartridge list of the | |
bc_recurringorder | Includes all basic functionality and business logic of the Recurring Order Service, and additional handlers, etc. |
|
bc_recurringorder_test | Integration tests for the cartridge | |
sld_ch_consumer_plugin_recurringorder | Contains pipelines, templates, etc. to provide a “feature flag” in the ICM back office to enable/disable the recurring order feature per channel. |
|
recurringorders_rest_test | Comprehensive REST tests based on Groovy for end-to-end testing of the recurring order feature. | |
test_recurringorders_init | Contains initialization steps for the REST Tests. |

The image is available in the respective Docker repository: *intershophub/icm-as-customization-recurringorders.*

The Recurring Order Extension can be used for the following application types:

Application Type | Application Type ID | Description |
|---|---|---|
Progressive Web App |
| B2C/B2B via REST is available out-of-the-box. |
Responsive Starter Store (*) |
| Manual steps are necessary to enable the feature in the applications. |

(*) See hints (manual steps/restrictions) regarding storefront integration described in [Storefront Integration](https://knowledge.intershop.com#StorefrontIntegration).

The recurring order feature is a storefront feature that allows users to repeatedly place orders based on a type of order template and a fixed schedule. It is available for B2C as well as for B2B customers and can be enabled/disabled per channel, see [Configuration](https://knowledge.intershop.com#configuration).

The [Subscription (Recurring Order) REST API](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/49226481665/Reference+-+Subscription+Recurring+Order+REST+API+1.1.2+valid+to+ICM+12) that came with the standard ICM was removed with ICM 13.0.0. Instead, you can use the Recurring Order REST API provided by the Recurring Order Extension. Make sure that the accept header contains: `application/vnd.intershop.recurringorder.v2+json`

.

For version Recurring Order/2.0.0, see [Reference - Recurring Order Extension REST API 2.0.0](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/49211572257/Reference+-+Recurring+Order+Extension+REST+API+2.0.0).

For version Recurring Order/2.1.0, see [Reference - Recurring Order Extension REST API 2.1.0](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/49939841075/Reference+-+Recurring+Order+Extension+REST+API+2.1.0).

For version Recurring Order/2.1.0+, the REST API supports updating the owner of a recurring order. This enhancement makes it possible to transfer ownership of recurring orders, for example, when a B2B user leaves the company and another user needs to assume responsibility for those orders. If B2B users are removed without re-assigning their recurring orders, all entries are automatically assigned to the (first) account admin.

This feature is only available in the REST API and not part of the PWA storefront yet.

**Info**

The **PWA 8.0+ **includes all necessary storefront parts for the integration for the Recurring Order Extension. The screenshots below are based on the PWA integration.

The **Responsive Starter Store** already contained a working integration of the Recurring Order Microservice for ICM 7.10. In general, this will continue to work for the new Recurring Order Extension with small limitations. As the UI has not been changed, some new functions and fields such as the option of deleting a recurring order, displaying the last five orders or selecting the total number of orders are missing in contrast to the new UI that has been developed in the PWA.

If the recurring order feature is enabled, the shopping cart will have a *One-time purchase* and *Recurring order* option.

When *Recurring order* is selected, additional fields to set the recurrence will be displayed.

**Recur every**: Mandatory recurrence interval (i.e., how often orders should be triggered)**Start from**: Mandatory start date, which can be today (default) or a future date**Until**: Optional end date, which is any date after the start date**Until after**: Optional number of orders after which the recurring order will automatically end

After selecting *Recurring order*, the subsequent steps up to the checkout must be carried out as usual.

The list of payment methods is usually limited, as the orders are created without user interaction. For example, it is not possible to log in to the payment service provider.

In case of a B2B order with the approval service activated, all recurring orders must be approved by default. For a B2C customer, the recurring order is created immediately after clicking the *Submit recurring order* button.

B2C customers and B2B users can view the list of available recurring orders by clicking *Purchases* | *Recurring orders*.

In addition, the B2B account administrator can see the list of their recurring orders as well as the list of recurring orders of the client (organization).

Clicking on the recurring order document number will take you to the recurring order details page. In addition to the usual information about the buyer, addresses, line items, shipping method, etc., the top part contains special information about the recurring order. For example, you can see when the last order was created, when the next order is scheduled, and how many orders have been created in total. If there are already orders based on this recurring order, the numbers of last 5 orders are also displayed and linked here.

Recurring orders can be paused at any time, as often and as long as required without giving reasons. To do this, the entries can be deactivated both in the list and in the detail view using the slider. If a recurring order is inactive, no orders are generated.

Following the general pattern, a single recurring order can be deleted from the list view by clicking on the trash can icon.

Independent from this extension, a new include *Basket - Order Summary Recurring Order Marketing* is available from ICM 13.2.0. This include allows to add marketing information related to recurring orders.

This include is only used in the PWA and is placed directly below the *Recurring order* section in the basket. It can contain various components, such as text, images, videos, HTML snippets, etc. Since these elements promote the recurring order feature, they are always visible, even when the *One-time purchase* option is selected. When the *Recurring order* option is selected and the promotional conditions are met, the promotion appears with a *Details* link that provides additional information.

See [Configuration | Feature Flag](https://knowledge.intershop.com#configuration).

The Recurring Orders Extension adds a *Recurring Orders* menu entry beneath *Orders* at the channel level in the Intershop Commerce Management back office.

This page automatically displays all recurring orders for the channel. Users can narrow down the results by searching by recurring order number, customer, or next order date. Additionally, users can sort some columns by clicking on the column headers.

Currently, only a list view of recurring orders is available. Links to the last order or customer lead directly to the respective order or customer details page.

Version 2.2.1 of this extension introduces a new promotion condition for recurring orders. This feature is only available with this extension.

You can use it to set up a promotion that offers discounts on recurring orders.

You can provide an order range in the condition details to limit the discount to a certain order range, see the examples.

The promotion condition for recurring orders can be combined with existing promotion conditions, e.g., receive a discount when there are more than five items in the cart or when special products are included or excluded (*Item Inclusion/Exclusion* condition). The discount can be an order discount or an item discount (for particular items or all items).

It is also possible to run multiple promotions based on recurring order conditions. These promotions could be applied simultaneously, staggered over time, or vary depending on the product assortment.

For more information on how to extend the messaging for the recurring order promotion to directly show customers the benefits of the promotion, see [Recurring Order Marketing Include](https://knowledge.intershop.com#MarketingInclude).

The Recurring Order Extension customization image is available from Intershop's public repository.

From version 2.2.1, a new feature cartridge *ft_recurringorders_demo* is available. It contains a demo promotion and content for the recurring order promotion condition based on inSPIRED demo data. If this is to be used, use *ft_recurringorders_demo* instead of *ft_recurringorders* in the following instructions.

To add customization to Helm values:

Declare the customization image.

Add feature cartridge *ft_recurringorders* to the cartridge list, see [Concept - Customization - Deployment - ICM 11+](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48443982957/Concept+-+Customization+-+Deployment+-+ICM+11).

icm-as: customizations: recurringorders: repository: intershophub/icm-as-customization-recurringorders:2.0.0 ... environment: CARTRIDGE_LIST: "ft_icm_as ft_recurringorders"

To prepare the start of ICM with the Recurring Order extension, make sure that all required services, the MSSQL database, and the web server are started.

Modify the compose file to specify which cartridges the ICM should load. This is done by setting the `CARTRIDGE_LIST`

environment variable on the application server:

services: customize-recurringorders: image: intershophub/icm-as-customization-recurringorders:<TAG> volumes: - customizations:/customizations ... appserver: depends_on: - customize-recurringorders ... environment: # ... more environment variables ... # Example cartridge list. Please adapt to your requirements. CARTRIDGE_LIST: "ft_icm_as ft_recurringorders" ...

When the application server is started, the feature is available without any DB preparation steps.

To add the customization to your project, you must add it to your customization dependencies.

Follow these steps:

Register the customization image in your main *build.gradle.kts*:

val icmDockerRegistry = "docker.tools.intershop.com/icm/intershophub" // specified in gradle.properties val recurringOrdersVersion: String by project intershop { projectConfig { modules { // ... other modules ... register("recurringorders") { dependency.set("com.intershop.recurringorders:recurringorders:${recurringOrdersVersion}") image.set("${icmDockerRegistry}/icm-as-customization-recurringorders:${recurringOrdersVersion}") testImage.set("${icmDockerRegistry}/icm-as-customization-recurringorders:${recurringOrdersVersion}") } } } } subprojects { // ... other settings ... plugins.withType<JavaPlugin> { dependencies { // ... other dependencies ... cartridge(platform("com.intershop.recurringorders:recurringorders_versions:${recurringOrdersVersion}")) implementation(platform("com.intershop.recurringorders:recurringorders_versions:${recurringOrdersVersion}")) } } }

For Responsive Starter Store integration, the REST API cartridge has to be added to the application cartridge list.

Add the dependency of the REST API cartridge to your Responsive Storefront application cartridge (e.g., a*pp_myproject/build.gradle.kts*):

dependencies { // ... original dependencies ... // Recurring Order Extension cartridgeRuntime ("com.intershop.recurringorders:app_sf_rest_recurringorder") }

Also add the REST API cartridge to your Responsive Storefront applications in your *apps.component*:

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="yes"?> <components xmlns="http://www.intershop.de/component/2010" scope="global"> <fulfill requirement="selectedCartridge" of="intershop.B2CResponsive.Cartridges" value="app_sf_rest_recurringorder" /> <fulfill requirement="selectedCartridge" of="intershop.SMBResponsive.Cartridges" value="app_sf_rest_recurringorder" /> </components>

Define `recurringOrdersVersion`

* *in your *gradle.properties*:

... recurringOrdersVersion = 2.0.0 ...

Start your application server in development mode:

Use Gradle to manage the server instance by using the command `gradlew startAS`

,

Run `gradlew tasks`

to see available tasks or check for further options.

For details on customization, see:

The Recurring Orders Extension adds a *Recurring Orders* preference section to the Intershop Commerce Management back office where you can enable/disable the feature for the channel.

**Note**

If the feature flag is switched off and recurring orders already exist, the UI will hide all related sections and no more orders will be created. Affected customers will not be notified.

The Recurring Order Extension automatically creates a job *Recurring Order Schedule Service* in the domain *root* and application *system* that is responsible for creating orders for each recurring order.

You can find it in the SMC *Scheduling *view.

The schedule (run time) of the service determines when recurring orders are triggered. In this example, the service runs daily at 9:00 AM. Since recurring order schedule dates are stored without time information (only the date is recorded), all orders due or overdue on that date will be generated.

After the job has been successfully executed, the total number of orders created can be viewed in the job’s *Attributes *tab.

Starting with version 2.2.1, you can manually trigger order creation for recurring orders. This could be useful either for testing purposes or if an additional delivery outside the planned schedule is necessary.

To do this, copy the IDs of the corresponding recurring orders as a comma-separated list (xxx,xyz,zzz) into the “ManualOrderCreation” field of the Recurring Order Scheduling Service job. If there are entries in this field, only these will be processed and not scheduled ones. This job can be repeated as many times as desired, and a new order will be generated each time for all specified IDs, regardless of whether an order was previously scheduled. After each order, the date of the next order is recalculated and set accordingly.

The ID of a recurring order is the string in the URL, as shown in the picture.

Support Custom Fields

Support Dependent Warranties

Update to Gradle 9

General bug fixes

Added new promotion condition

Added customer e-mail to the error when an order could not be created

Provide information about promotions & discounts via REST API

Added possibility to execute a manual order creation

General improvements & fixes

Improved accessibility for e-mail templates

Support of recurring order owner transfer (B2B only)

General bug fixes (dependency problems)

Support of ICM 13.0.0

Show last 5 orders in recurring order details (storefront)

Fix/rework e-mail templates especially for B2B (requisitions for recurring orders)

Show list of recurring orders in ICM back office (including search & sorting)

Internal rework: Use direct method calls instead of REST for inside communication

General improvements & fixes

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.