---
id: '69baf9fcf349ec2b40f368c511579f32'
title: 'Users'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3267C8'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:56.191564+00:00'
---
# Users

Sales and partner organizations each maintain an individual pool of users. Users are managed in the organization context. To make them available for individual channels or applications, you have to explicitly grant them access to these management contexts.

Important properties which define a user include:

-
User Profile

Each user has a profile which can be edited by the user administrator or by the user. The user profile contains user information such as first name, last name, e-mail address, login, password and preferred language, as well as at least one address. This address cannot be deleted and is referred to as the user's

*Contact Address*. You can create additional addresses for each user. -
Department Roles

Users are assigned to one or more departments via the assignment of department roles. The roles determine what a user can do, for example, managing catalogs, orders, or users. When assigning a department role to a user, you first select the department to which the user should belong, and then choose from the roles that the department has defined. For details, see

[Department Roles](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/operation_maintenance/topic_access_privileges_and_roles.html#con_org_acc_dep). -
Access Privileges

Roles determine the access privileges of a user. Hence, when being assigned a role, a user indirectly receives all the access privileges which the role comprises. In addition, access privileges can be assigned to a user directly. For details, see

[Access Privileges](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/operation_maintenance/topic_access_privileges_and_roles.html#con_org_acc_priv). -
Administration User

By default, Intershop Commerce Management creates an administration user for each sales or partner organization. The administration user has the access privilege Organization Manager, enabling the user to manage departments, users, and roles.