---
id: '6a625a5663cc1ed5944e3bf36ff36a24'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/28H570'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:39:42.036912+00:00'
---
Info

This guide describes how to create an Oracle database based on a preconfigured Database Configuration Assistant (DBCA) template.

This method is mainly suited for development systems and should not be used as is in order to create a database for a production system. These typically require careful consideration of storage, memory and other configuration options, such as where to store datafiles or how much memory is needed to process the projected workload. You can, however, use the template as a base for your own customizations, as described in section [Custom Installation](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Guide-QuickDatabaseSetupWithDBCATemplates-CustomInstallation).

The template approach only works with an existing Oracle software installation. You can use any of the following editions:

Oracle XE does not support the use of DBCA templates.

`ORACLE_BASE`

and `ORACLE_HOME`

`ORACLE_SID`

, if necessary.Download the template that matches your version of Oracle:

| Oracle Release | Template |
|---|---|
| 12.1.0.x |
|

The easiest way to use the DBCA template is a silent installation, which requires no user interaction and can be started using the following command:

dbca -silent -createDatabase -templateName ISORCL -gdbName ISORCL -sid ISORCL -sysPassword intershop -systemPassword intershop

This creates a database with the following properties:

The template can also be used as a starting point for DBCA, so you can configure a database with properties (at least partially) different from those set in the template (e.g., you want to change the location of datafiles or enable an EM repository)

It is generally recommended to keep the template settings for initialization parameters. Do not change the character set of the database nor the tablespaces to be created (you may add new, but do not delete any of the preconfigured tablespaces).

DBCA does not create and start a listener, which is required for remote clients to connect to the database. Use NETCA to add a suitable default listener. Accept all default settings presented by the setup wizard.

We strongly recommend to change the passwords of `SYS`

and `SYSTEM`

after the database has been created:

Connect to the database instance:

#> sqlplus / as sysdba

Change the passwords using:

ALTER USER sys IDENTIFIED BY <password> ALTER USER system IDENTIFIED BY <password>

Intershop 7 requires at least one database user (two, if you install a staging environment). Use the SQL script [create_is_user.sql](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Deliver/DOC/28H570/create-is-user.sql) to create a default user with appropriate privileges. The script must be executed as *SYSTEM* or *SYS*. If you want a different name or password, edit the first two lines, respectively.

The database instance does not use automatic memory management by default, because this is not supported on all operating systems. More information about this feature and how to enable/disable it can be found in the [Oracle Database Administrator's Guide](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E11882_01/server.112/e25494/toc.htm).

If you use a Windows platform and you are logged in as a domain administrator, the installation may fail showing with "*ORA-12638: Credential retrieval failed*". You can fix this by changing `SQLNET.AUTHENTICATION_SERVICES`

from `(NTS)`

to `(NONE)`

in *%ORACLE_HOME%network/admin/sqlnet.ora*.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.