---
id: '6aab0cd2ec77b1efb9f2576237bfc2a6'
title: 'Personal Data Requests'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32N510'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:38.780089+00:00'
---
# Personal Data Requests

In compliance with the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), Intershop Commerce Management allows to handle Personal Data Requests. This includes the export as well as the deletion of personal data. There are two scenarios to create such data requests:

-
Personal Data Request via Contact Form or Phone

An unregistered customer may either want to receive or delete personal data. Therefore the customer makes the respective request, e.g., by phone or via contact form. A customer service representative (CSR) then triggers the process for the respective customer with the status

*pending*in Intershop Commerce Management. The system sends a confirmation e-mail to the customer.As soon as the e-mail's confirmation link is clicked, the system sets the request's status to

*open*. Once the CSR starts to process the request, the status is set to*in progress*. The CSR then informs the customer about the progress of the request and sends a link to download the personal data or a notification about the deletion. Successfully processed requests are set to*closed (handled)*, rejected requests to*closed (rejected)*. -
Personal Data Request via My Account

A registered customer uses the My Account area to create a request to either receive or delete the personal data. Once the CSR starts to process the request, the request's status is set to

*in progress*. The CSR then informs the customer about the progress of the request and sends e.g., a link to download the personal data or a notification about the deletion. Successfully processed requests are set to*closed (handled)*, rejected requests to*closed (rejected)*.

The following Personal Data Request Statuses are available:

| Status | Description |
|---|---|
| pending | Manually triggered but not yet confirmed by the customer |
| open | Confirmed by the customer but not yet processed |
| in progress | The CSR has started processing the request |
| closed (handled) | The request was completed successfully |
| closed (rejected) | The request was rejected |

For details about managing personal data requests, see [Managing Personal Data Requests](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/customer_management/topic_managing_personal_data_requests.html#task_cons_mgmt_dataReq).

For details about managing personal data request preferences, see [Managing Personal Data Request Preferences](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/operation_maintenance/task_managing_personal_data_request_preferences.html).