---
id: '6b60d0f9aaf89c1511f061c9899f9f2c'
title: 'Publishing Products'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3A2303'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:39.031890+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/3A2303

# Publishing Products

In data replication environments, catalog managers can publish products from the editing system to the target system on a fine-grained base. To do so:
-
Locate the products you intend to publish.
Select the checkboxes for the products on the product list view. Alternatively, perform a search to identify the intended products.

-
Click the Edit Selected button.
To publish a complete search result set, click the Edit All button. This displays the list of available batch process tasks.

-
Select Replicate Products to another Intershop Commerce Management cluster and click Next.
This displays the list of configured target systems.

-
Select the intended target system and the locking conflict resolution.
For details about the locking conflict resolution options, see

[Object Locking](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/concept_catalog_import_and_export.html#con_cat_impex_lock).

-
Click Finish.
The selected products are replicated to the selected target system.


## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.