---
id: '6be0c5e939dfcbb2bf04d83598bd163c'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3S1297'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:20.663991+00:00'
---
This document describes how to onboard new customers to the Intershop Stripe Connect platform. It provides a step-by-step description from login to successful onboarding.

Initiating the onboarding process and providing the onboarding URL to the customer is a key responsibility of the Intershop support team.

Screenshots capturing the onboarding process were taken while the system was running in test mode.

Open the onboarding URL (provided by the Intershop Representative) and enter your email address.

Create a password.

Set up two-step authentication, for example using Google Authenticator.

Create a new account or select an existing Stripe account associated with your e-mail address.

If you choose to create a new account or if your existing account is missing important information, you will be asked to provide additional information about your business, including address information.

Once all information has been provided, click *Agree and submit* to complete the onboarding process.

To access the Stripe dashboard:

Once the onboarding process is complete, go back to [https://dashboard.stripe.com/dashboard](https://dashboard.stripe.com/dashboard) and enter your email and password.

Enter your 2FA code and click *Continue*:

This opens the Stripe dashboard.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.