---
id: '6c2664aea914a4f0f67fe1a0f67aa8d1'
title: 'Creating Affiliate Partner Programs'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/P32571'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:22.552098+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/P32571

# Creating Affiliate Partner Programs

To create a program for an affiliate partner:
-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Marketing | Affiliate Partners.
This displays a list of all affiliate partners.

-
Select the affiliate partner to which the program belongs.
The detail view for the affiliate partner is displayed.

-
Change to the Programs tab.
A list of all existing partner programs is displayed.

-
Click New.
The Affiliate Partner Program details view is displayed.

-
Enter all mandatory information for the affiliate partner program.
Mandatory fields include the ID. You can define start and end dates for the program. To enable the program, select the Enabled check box.

-
Click Apply.
This generates the URL for the new affiliate partner program. Distribute this URL to the affiliate partner site. You can now view access statistics for this program.


## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.