---
id: '6c6b80f7f368e078f8537968c800ec8d'
title: 'Page Template Manager'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32388N'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:16.443243+00:00'
---
# Page Template Manager

The Page Template Manager is divided into two tabs: Tree View and List View.

The tree view shows a representation of the current site's page template structure. Using the tree view, content managers can lock user-generated page templates for editing () and copy a user-generated page template (). In addition, content managers can create new page templates or delete user-generated page templates using the New or Delete buttons.

Clicking the name of a page template in the tree view selects this page template as the parent when creating a new page template. Clicking the ID of a page template opens the page template detail view, which is divided into three tabs:

-
Content: displays the configurable parameters and the content components and placeholders assigned to the template (as provided by the type).

-
Properties: displays general page template settings like locale, name, ID, parent, active flag.

-
Labels: lists all labels assigned to the page template.


The list view shows the user-generated page templates in a plain list. Using the list view, content managers can search for the name or ID of page templates of a specific group or type. They can lock page templates for editing () and copy a page template (). In addition, content managers can create new page templates or delete page templates using the New or Delete buttons. Clicking the name or ID of a page template opens the page template detail view (see above).