---
id: '6d7495010dca193d4ce3c687eae30df7'
title: 'Table of Contents'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/262H06'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:46.679969+00:00'
---
Intershop applications use relational databases. A relational schema specifies a collection of *table definitions*, providing structure for the data housed in the database instance. The database structure is tangibly pictured in an entity-relationship diagram. These diagram/model is contained in the attached **.zip* files.

The *erm_pdf_<version>.zip* contains a set of PDF documents.

The *erm_pdm_<version>.zip* contains a set of physical data models (**.pdm* files) usable with Sybase PowerDesigner.

Note

These materials are subject to change without notice. These materials are provided by Intershop Communications AG for informational purposes only, without representation or warranty of any kind, and Intershop shall not be liable for errors or omissions with respect to the materials. The only warranties for Intershop products and services are those that are set forth in the express warranty statements accompanying such products and services, if any. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an additional warranty.

Especially, physical data models differ significantly for each implementation, not least due to the underlying operating-system requirements that sits underneath them.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.