---
id: '6e794388f6690aeff68eb9afa561d50c'
title: 'Sending Verification E-Mails for Newsletter Subscriptions'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32M615'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:12.984271+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/32M615

# Sending Verification E-Mails for Newsletter Subscriptions

To send verification e-mails to storefront users who subscribed to the newsletter:
-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Marketing | Newsletter.
This displays the Subscriptions tab with a table containing all registered e-mail addresses.

-
Click on the e-mail address you intend to send the verification e-mail to.
This opens the standard e-mail program for administrative e-mails to the newsletter recipient.

-
Adapt the information given in the e-mail if necessary.
Note: Depending on which action should be performed by the subscriber in order to confirm the registration, the e-mail to request confirmation has to be adapted accordingly. Default settings for the e-mail template can be set via marketing.emailMarketingStdList.MailTo in the file * f_checkout/ac_email_marketing_std/staticfiles/cartridge/localizations/ac_email_marketing_std_templates_en.properties.*

-
Send the e-mail to the desired recipient.

## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.