---
id: '6e9099ec5fa8a59d3917aa6f67863cd8'
title: 'Using Google Tag Manager Service'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/C32836'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:21.989335+00:00'
---
# Using Google Tag Manager Service

System managers use the Services section to activate the Google Tag Manager service. Basically, the service needs to be made available, configured and activated in the management context that exposes the web application to be tagged, usually the storefront application.

For general information about Google Tag Manager, see [Google Tag Manager](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/online_marketing/concept_google_tag_manager.html).

## Preconditions

-
Create Google Tag Manager Account
Make sure that your organization has created a Google account and has used this account to setup the Google Tag Manager at
[the Google Tag Manager website](https://tagmanager.google.com/). Basically, you can set up the Google Tag Manager account for your "root" organization, which has then the authority to maintain other subordinated domains or sites, that is, your Intershop Commerce Management storefront applications. -
Set Up Google Tag Manager Containers
Create a "container" for every site, i.e., application, for which you want to manage tags with Google Tag Manager. In the container, configure the analysis or marketing tools according to your application's needs. You will then get a site-specific JavaScript code snippet in each container, which you add to the application-specific Google Tag Manager service configuration. For details about setting up Google Tag Manager, refer to the
[Google Tag Manager Help](https://support.google.com/tagmanager). -
Enable Google Tag Manager Service
Make sure your central system administrator has enabled the Google Tag Manager service for your organization, see
[Services: Concepts](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/operation_maintenance/topic_services_concept.html).

## Making Google Tag Manager Available

To create a Google Tag Manager service configuration:

-
Select the application from the context selection box.
This opens the navigation bar for the application.
-
In the navigation bar, select Services.
This displays the available service configurations.
-
Click New.
This starts the New Service Configuration wizard, displaying the Determine Service Type segment.
-
Select Google Tag Manager Service and click Next.
Select the radio button of the Google Tag Manager Service, for which you intend to create a new configuration. Clicking Next displays the General Information segment.
-
Specify the required general information and click Next.
The mandatory information includes ID, display name and activation status. Clicking Next displays the Configuration Settings segment.
-
Specify the required configuration values.
The mandatory information includes the Google Code Snippet as copied from Google Tag Manager, see
[Preconditions](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/operation_maintenance/topic_using_google_tag_manager_service.html#task_pref_servGtm_precond). Other settings include logging and monitoring options, which are optional. -
Click Finish to create the service configuration.
Otherwise, click Cancel to discard the operation.

[Services Management](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/operation_maintenance/topic_services_management.html).