---
id: '6f91472e31c9450791b7c69445df941f'
title: 'Shipping Data Import and Export'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/A32870'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:11.390679+00:00'
---
# Shipping Data Import and Export

Managing shipping configurations involves importing and exporting shipping methods, destination regions, freight classes and shipping rules. The import and export procedures are the same for these shipping data objects. In addition, you can upload lists of excluded delivery dates.

Note:

The shipping data export always includes all available objects of one type. That is, you cannot select individual shipping methods, destination regions, freight classes or shipping rules to be exported.

Note:

The tasks described in this section are performed in the context of a sales channel.

## Uploading Shipping Data for Import

-
Open the Import & Export manager for shipping data.
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Orders | Shipping Configuration. Then click Import & Export.
-
In the Import & Export row, click Upload.
A list of files that have already been uploaded is displayed.
- In the Upload File field, specify the file path or click Choose File to locate the file.
-
Click Upload to upload the file.
The uploaded file is displayed in the list. It can now be imported.

Tip:

In order to save system resources, Intershop recommends to delete the uploaded import files after the import process has been completed.

## Downloading Shipping Data Export Files

-
Open the Import & Export manager for shipping data.
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Orders | Shipping Configuration. Then click Import & Export.
-
In the Import & Export row, click Download.
A list of files that have been exported is displayed.
-
Click a file name to save the corresponding file.
This displays the browser's download dialog, prompting you to save the file.

Tip:

After you have downloaded and saved export files, Intershop recommends to delete the export files in order to save system resources.

## Exporting Shipping Data

-
Open the Import & Export manager for shipping data.
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Orders | Shipping Configuration. Then click Import & Export.
-
In the row of the intended objects (Freight Classes, Shipping Methods, Regions, Shipping Rules), click Export.
This displays the Configure Export page.
-
Specify an export file name and click Finish.
The export process is started immediately. The Import & Export Status dialog is displayed.
-
Download the export file.
For details, see
[Downloading Shipping Data Export Files](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/orders_fulfillment/topic_shipping_data_import_and_export.html#task_order_shipImpex_dl).

## Importing Shipping Data

-
Open the Import & Export manager for shipping data.
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Orders | Shipping Configuration. Then click Import & Export.
-
Upload the file to be imported.
For details, see
[Uploading Shipping Data for Import](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/orders_fulfillment/topic_shipping_data_import_and_export.html#task_order_shipImpex_upl). -
In the row of the intended objects (Freight Classes, Shipping Methods, Regions, Shipping Rules) click Import.
A list of files that can be imported is displayed.
-
Select the file to import, then click Next.
The import file is now validated. When successful, the number of identified objects (freight classes, shipping methods, regions, shipping rules) is displayed. In case of errors, error messages are generated.
-
Click Next to continue.
The import mode selection page is displayed.
-
Select the import mode.
For importing shipping data, the import modes INITIAL, REPLACE and DELETE are available. For import mode details, see
[Standard Import Modes](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/concept_catalog_import_and_export.html#con_cat_impex_modes). -
Click Import.
The import process is started immediately. The Import & Export Status dialog is displayed.