---
id: '713d06340ebe0cfeb5c1b7f77786cae6'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3146Z4'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:06.857837+00:00'
---
This document provides an overview of available systems in the Intershop Commerce Platform.

**Note**

Descriptions for the Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) application apply to version 7.10.

If you are working with ICM 11+, PWA, or IOM in the Intershop Commerce Platform, see [Concept - Intershop Commerce Platform System Overview](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1930399920/Concept+-+Intershop+Commerce+Platform+System+Overview).

Term | Description |
|---|---|
ICM | Intershop Commerce Management |
INT | Integration environment |
IOM | Intershop Order Management |
PRD | Production environment |
PWA | Progressive Web App |
UAT | User acceptance test environment |
VM | Virtual machine |

[Reference - Intershop Commerce Platform - Operational FAQ (ICM 11+)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/49776722376/Reference+-+Intershop+Commerce+Platform+-+Operational+FAQ+ICM+11)

[Concept - Intershop Commerce Platform Synchronization Process](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1905709613/Concept+-+Intershop+Commerce+Platform+Synchronization+Process)

[Concept - Intershop Commerce Platform DevOps - Access and Permissions](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1934742560/Concept+-+Intershop+Commerce+Platform+DevOps+-+Access+and+Permissions)

The Intershop Commerce Platform is a customizable SaaS/PaaS solution for complex B2B commerce scenarios. It consists of multiple loosely coupled apps and services combined in an API-oriented architecture.

Depending on the selected Intershop subscription and options, the platform is based on multiple single-tenant and multi-tenant applications, such as Intershop Commerce Management (ICM), Intershop Order Management (IOM), Intershop Progressive Web App (PWA), Intershop Customer Engagement Center (CEC), and/or BI Data Hub.

The Intershop Commerce Platform is typically tailored to the customer’s specific needs in a separate software customization project. The customization project is implemented by an Intershop implementation partner or Intershop Professional Services.

To ensure the highest quality of the customer’s commerce solution, Intershop also provides non-production environments and DevOps tooling to support professional continuous integration (CI) and continuous delivery (CD) processes.

The following table gives an overview of the different environments and clusters provided to the customer depending on the Intershop subscription:

Environment types:

The PRODUCTION (PRD) environment is used for end customers and by content editors.

The USER ACCEPTANCE TEST (UAT) environment is used for acceptance testing of new releases by the customer. It is typically initialized with anonymized production data to allow for realistic testing.

The INTEGRATION (INT) environment is used by the development teams for integration tests.

The following graphics show workflows and responsibilities for different processes and tools of our individual applications.

The next chapters give a more detailed overview of the CI/CD systems for the specific applications.

The left side shows the continuous integration environment. It is based on Azure DevOps and consists of a Git repository and build pipeline. The created software artifacts are stored in the binary repository. Releases can then be deployed to the VM-based non-production and production systems on the right side.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.