---
id: '7274e8e7728b7596645a73c7e5304019'
title: 'Concept - Intershop PWA'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/29B388'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:40.733195+00:00'
---
The PWA allows to supply localized and SEO optimized URLs for categories and product detail pages.

This feature is mainly built on top of Angular's [UrlMatcher](https://angular.io/api/router/UrlMatcher) for parsing routes and a custom pipe for generating them.

Artifacts for custom routes are accumulated in *src/app/core/routing*.

Each route must supply an implementation of [UrlMatcher](https://angular.io/api/router/UrlMatcher) to be used in the routing module.

We recommend defining custom routes in *src/app/pages/app-last-routing.module.ts*, so they do not interfere with other routes.

The easiest approach for implementation would be to build on top of `UrlSegment`

, but it is also possible to implement a custom solution with regular expressions.

It is also important to generate the customized routes depending on entities or other configuration.

It is helpful to implement an exported `generateXRoute`

helper function, that transforms said entity to a URL.

To detect routes in NgRx Effects, we recommend to also supply an operator, that filters for URLs of customized routes using the `RouteNavigation`

as an input.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.