---
id: '72f2424a623566c5fa90bc8c87a3ac36'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2R9141'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:36:13.390782+00:00'
---
Note

This concept is valid from ICM version 7.10.12. Information on previous versions can be found in [Concept - Configuration (valid to 7.10.11)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1755483166). For version 11+, refer to [Concept - Configuration](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/47859113552/Concept+-+Configuration).

The configuration framework is designed to let the administrator (not the developer) decide from where to read a configuration. The purpose of the configuration framework is to have the ability to ask one manager for a property, but to read, if necessary, from multiple sources.

The terms *property* and *preference* are used as synonyms in this context. The term *configuration source* is a placeholder for anything that can be a source for configurations, e.g., a file, a database table, an external resource etc.

The heart of the configuration is the file *configuration.xml*. This file includes the configuration of the configuration engine instance used at `ConfigurationMgr.`


The following examples illustrate how to use the configuration framework. Every access is started at the `ConfigurationMgr`

(which starts a configuration engine and loads the *configuration.xml*).

import com.intershop.beehive.core.capi.configuration.ConfigurationMgr; // short notation to get string values String configString = ConfigurationMgr.getString("config.key.string","defaultValue") // long notation to get many types and other scopes Boolean configBool = ConfigurationMgr.getInstance().getConfiguration().getBoolean("config.key.boolean", true); // domain configuration Domain eTest = NamingMgr.getManager(DomainMgr.class).getDomainByName("eTest"); String configDomainString = ConfigurationMgr.getInstance().getConfiguration(eTest).getString("config.key.string", "defaultValue"); // or via domain - same thing other notation String configDomainString2 = eTest.getConfiguration().getString("config.key.string", "defaultValue");

These configuration examples are mostly used for debugging purposes or visualization in the SMC.

// get a configuration for scope=instance Configuration configInstance = ConfigurationMgr.getInstance().getInstanceConfiguration(); // get a configuration for scope=cluster Configuration configCluster = ConfigurationMgr.getInstance().getClusterConfiguration(); // full access to the configuration Configuration yourConfig = ConfigurationMgr.getInstance().getConfiguration(String scope, ConfigurationContext context);

The object path is often used in templates and queries. It is possible to access the configuration via the object path notation.

<isprint value="#CurrentSite:Configuration:String("<parameter>")#" /> <isprint value="#CurrentSite:Configuration:Integer(<group>.<subgroup>.<parameter-of-subgroup>)#" />

This file is located at *${IS_SHARE}/share/system/config/cluster*; the source file can be found in *<core-cartridge-source>/staticfiles/share/system/config/cluster.*

<configuration-setup> <readers> <reader class="..." /> </readers> <finders> <finder name="..." class="..." /> </finders> <writers> <writer name="..." class="..." /> </writers> <scopes> <scope name="..." depends="..." /> </scopes> <sets> <set finder="..." scope="..." writer="..." defaultWriter="..." writableKeys="..." /> </sets> </configuration-setup>

`<set fileName="..."/>`

will trigger the `setFileName(...)`

methodNote

The order of the configuration sets (and associated writers) in this file is important. If you have to read from two different configuration sources, the property of the first will be returned as defined in the file.

The configuration engine can provide different configurations for different purposes. To this end, the concept of scopes was introduced. A scope is a logical structuring of configurations that are needed for this purpose.

Stating that a scope **depends** on (an)other scope(s) means that in order to load configurations for this scope (e.g., *instance*), you initially have to load all configurations on which this scope depends ( *startup*). As *startup* uses the system configuration, which gives you any system properties (`intershop.HomeDirectory`

), the *instance* scope cannot be properly loaded as long as it depends on values from the *startup* scope.

The fact that one scope depends on another scope does not automatically mean that if you request a configuration for this scope, you will also have configuration sets of the dependent scopes in it. That is, if you request a configuration for the scope *instance* which depends on *startup*, any *startup* configuration set is not necessarily in the *instance* scope.

The following picture outlines the scopes currently used.

The system properties include all properties defined for the [scope](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Concept-Configuration(7.10.12to7.10.41-LTS)-scopes) `system`

. This includes:

System environment properties take preference over Java VM properties.

Those properties will be available inside the configuration framework using the following keys:

`PATH`

)`'system.'`

plus the original key of the property (e.g., `system.PATH`

)

As operation systems like Linux and Windows have restrictions with environment variables, the final property lookup via the configuration framework executes the following steps for the system scope:

transformation example

`intershop.jdbc.dataSourceName`

→ `INTERSHOP_JDBC_DATASOURCENAME`


This allows to override properties defined in a scope below the system scope using system environment properties that are restricted by the OS.

Sometimes (in rare cases) the property key is required to follow a strict naming (e.g., camel case). So there is another option to add properties to the system scope: there are properties supported that follow the naming scheme `ISH_ENV_*`

(* can be anything supported by the OS). The values of all these properties have to follow a special syntax:

key0=value0[,key1=value1[,...keyN=valueN]]


For instance there may be 2 `ISH_ENV`

_* properties that may be defined like:

ISH_ENV_DB=intershop.databaseType=mssql,intershop.jdbc.dataSourceName=defaultDB,intershop.jdbc.driverType=thin ISH_ENV_STATING=staging.process.NrOfParallelProcessors=2

If these properties are defined like that, the following properties will be defined inside the configuration framework:

| key | value |
|---|---|
| intershop.databaseType | mssql |
| intershop.jdbc.dataSourceName | defaultDB |
| intershop.jdbc.driverType | thin |
| system.intershop.databaseType | mssql |
| system.intershop.jdbc.dataSourceName | defaultDB |
| system.intershop.jdbc.driverType | thin |
| staging.process.NrOfParallelProcessors | 2 |
| system.staging.process.NrOfParallelProcessors | 2 |



Note

When working with system properties, be aware of the following restrictions for Windows or Linux:

| OS | supports minus ('-') | supports dot ('.') | supports case sensitivity |
|---|---|---|---|
| Windows | |||
| Linux |

There is an implicit list of finders which provide URIs that can be read by the readers below.

Finder scheme | Attributes | Notes |
|---|---|---|
system | read system and environment variables. All system variables will be prefixed with | |
app-folder |
| folder is predefined with |
cartridge |
| folder is predefined with The folder can be part of each source cartridge |
cartridge-folder |
| folder is predefined with ${IS_SHARE}/system/config/cartridges. |
defaultprefs | default values from PreferenceDefinitionPO | |
domain-folder |
| folder is predefined with |
instance |
| read network interfaces to define instance-specific file |
preference | preference values from PreferencePO | |
property |
| read a single properties file |
xml |
| read a single XML file |

Configuration set will be configured with a finder and specific attribute values for this finder. Each attribute value can use the placeholder `"${key}"`

to reference an existing property of an upper scope. For example the sets for domain scope can use `"cluster"`

scoped configuration values.

The standard *configuration.xml* contains placeholders for system-specific folders and environments. The way it works, for example for environments, is shown below:

`"environment=PRD"`

) (is defined in scope `"instance"`

first).All "PRD"-specific configurations can be placed in "PRD.properties" if the *configuration.xml* contains the

<set finder="property" scope="cluster,server,domain" fileName="${IS_SHARE}/system/config/cluster/${environment}.properties"/>

The domain-specific configuration is more complex since a regular expression is used to check the matched files (e.g., PRD_uri.properties).

<set finder="domain-folder" scope="domain" matches="^${environment}_[\w&&[^_]]*$" fileExtensions="properties,xml"/>

In case domain properties should be environment and staging type dependent (`staging.system.type`

mostly defined at` staging.properties`

), an additional line in the *configuration.xml* will load such property files (e.g., PRD_editing_uri.properties).

<set finder="domain-folder" scope="domain" matches="^${environment}_${staging.system.type}_[\w&&[^_]]*$" fileExtensions="properties,xml"/>

This is the list of currently available readers (package names are abbreviated).

Reader (read URI) | Notes |
|---|---|
ish-system | reads system environment |
ish-transient | provides access to the transient configuration set |
*.properties | only returns a configuration set for files ending with |
*.xml | only returns a configuration set for files ending with |
ish-preference | provides a configuration set that reads from preferences tables |
ish-defaultPreference | provides a configuration set that reads from preference definitions tables |
ish-domainFolder | provides a combined configuration set that has instances of configuration sets read from a folder that corresponds to the domain name (e.g., from |
ish-siteCartridge | provides a configuration combined set with instances of configuration sets for configuration files from |

The following writers are currently used:

Writer | Notes |
|---|---|
transient | immediately updates the given configuration set, does not write the configuration to another place |
property | writes the given configuration set to the given URI as a property file, updates the given configuration set afterwards |

There should be at least one default writer in your system that will get any values set to the configuration framework - and not to lose them. Therefore, the transient writer has been created which updates the transient configuration set.

A writer will only be used to write keys he is allowed to write. To this end, the `getWritableKeys()`

function is used to check if a writer can write these keys. If no writer is found to write a key, the default writer will be used (if one is given).

`someValue.`

For development purposes, a reloading mechanism of property files has been implemented. It can be enabled by setting `intershop.configuration.CheckSource`

in *appserver.properties* to `true`

. The delay for checking (and necessarily reloading) the property files can be set using `intershop.configuration.CheckSourceInterval `

(which specifies the reloading interval in milliseconds).

A developer wants to open up an implementation for configuration values. So the developer has to include a line to get the configuration from the framework.

`String value = ConfigurationMgr.getString(key, `

`defaultValue`

`);`


Providing a default value in here is the direct and best way to do it, because the code does not depend on a further configuration step.

A developer of an application type can override this `defaultValue`

via a cartridge property file, located in the cartridge source directory *<cartridge>/staticfiles/cartridge/config*. These configurations are included with the configuration finder "cartridge".

Depending on the order in *configuration.xml*, you can put your configuration to these locations:

Purpose | Location |
|---|---|
domain/site-specific configuration |
|
domain/site-specific and cartridge-specific |
|
not site-specific / configuration coming with cartridges |
|
instance/server-specific |
|

Configuration values of business users should be stored in the database. Therefore, two possibilities are available at the moment:

The developer of the business management application is responsible to decide which is the correct location of the property.

With *Intershop 7* a new scope was introduced. The name of this scope is *service* and as it implies, it is used for the *Managed Service Framework.*

A new finder, reader, and writer have been created for this scope. The finder creates URIs for the *service* scope which only the reader can read and for which only the writer is allowed to write.

The reader creates *configuration sets* which will look into the `ServiceConfigurationPOAttributeValuePO`

table using the `ServiceConfigurationPO`

which has to be provided in the context used to get the configuration values from the set.

The writer, on the other hand, writes in the same table, also using the `ServiceConfigurationPO`

provided in the context.

The *service* scope is somehow a standalone scope. If someone requests configurations from this scope, only one reader is triggered returning only one type of configuration set. You currently can be sure that this scope does not contain other properties than properties from the `ServiceConfigurationPOAttributeValuePO`

table, e.g., values from the *appserver.properties* or `PreferencePO`

table are not included. But of course, this can be changed any time by updating the *configuration.xml* file.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.