---
id: '735890f0263f4b556ab09bf89d7e7040'
title: 'ISML Function'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/29C764'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:40:35.672154+00:00'
---
Info

This function is available from ICM 7.10.24.

The function `effectiveConfigurationParameter()`

is used to get a specific configuration parameter from a pagelet. The sharing path is taken into account, so if it has been overwritten, the effective configuration parameter is returned.

However, in most cases, the business Logic of the ICM already resolves these parameters when returning Pagelets, Slots and so on. This function is only required in corner cases, where the specific views can not be generated and/or accessed.

effectiveConfigurationParameter(<configurationParameterCtnr>,<parameterName>), effectiveConfigurationParameter(<configurationParameterCtnr>,<parameterName>,[<domain>])

The following example shows how to get the title of a `Pagelet`

including sharing and overriding lookup in a specific Domain `domain`

.

#effectiveConfigurationParameter(Pagelet, "Title", domain)#

For this example, it is assumed that the pagelet is created in a parent domain of `domain`

with a title "Foo". In this case `#Pagelet:Title#`

would be "`Foo`

".

The pagelet is shared into domain, and there the title is overwritten with "Bar". If requested in this domain, `#Pagelet:Title#`

would be still "Foo", but with the code above, "Bar" will be printed.

`configurationParameterCtnr`

The object holding the configuration parameter, e.g. a pagelet, slot, pagelet entry point or view context.

`parameterName`

The name of a parameter which should be resolved.

`domain`

The domain, in which the parameter should be resolved. It is optional, if not present, the requests current domain will be used.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.