---
id: '740f536f8167ffd59a26f632409ebe22'
title: 'Configuring Process Chain Steps'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32X692'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:49.032196+00:00'
---
# Configuring Process Chain Steps

-
In the navigation bar, select Mass Data Tasks | Process Chains.
The Process Chains list is displayed.
-
Select the process chain which should be configured by clicking on its name.
The General tab of the process chain is displayed.
- Switch to the Steps tab.

## Adding a New Job to a Process Chain Step

- Click New.
- Select Job from the Type drop-down list and click Apply button.
-
Select the Domain.
The domain selection affects which jobs are available and defines the context in which the job will be executed.
-
Enter an Integer value for Timeout (min) to define the job's maximum run-time.
A job that exceeds this time span will be stopped and marked as failed.
-
Select the desired job from the Job drop-down list.
If the desired job is not displayed, please check the domain setting.
- Click Apply to add the job to the process chain.

For an overview of all preconfigured jobs, refer to the according reference, see [Overview - Intershop Jobs](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2V8210).

## Add a New Pipeline to a Process Chain Step

- Click New.
- Select Pipeline from the Type drop-down box and click the Apply button.
-
Select the Domain.
This defines the context in which the pipeline will be executed.
-
Enter an Integer value for Timeout (min) to define the job's maximum run-time.
A pipeline that exceeds this time span will be stopped and marked as failed.
- Specify the name of the pipeline to be executed.
- Specify the pipeline's start node name.
- Click Apply to add the job to the process chain.
-
Optionally: Click on the pipeline name to add parameters which are required for the pipeline execution.
-
To add a new pipeline parameter, click New, enter at least one parameter name and click OK.

-
To delete an existing pipeline parameter, select the corresponding checkbox and click Delete.


-

## Remove Process Chain Steps

-
Select the checkbox of the according step.
Optionally, in case of groups of steps, select the checkbox in the group box within the gray bar.
- Click Delete.

## Grouping and Ungrouping of Process Chain Steps

- Select the checkbox of at least two process chain steps or process chain step groups.
- Click Group.

## Sorting of Process Chain Steps

To alter the sorting of the steps:

-
Select the process chain step (mark its checkbox).
Optionally, to select a process chain step group, select the checkbox within the box of the step group (checkbox in the gray bar).
- Use the Move Up and Move Down buttons to alter the sorting.

## Setting the Execution Mode of Process Chains and Step Groups

To change the execution mode:

- Select the Execution Mode.
- Click Apply.

| Execution mode | Description |
|---|---|
| SERIAL | Steps within this process chain step group will be executed one after another. |
| PARALLEL | Steps within this process chain step group will be executed in parallel. |
| ERROR | Steps within this process chain step group will be executed in case an error occurred. |