---
id: '743dc2999a22185ec2e4c2422a86429c'
title: 'Product Assortments'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/G32187'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:05.037366+00:00'
---
# Product Assortments

The product assortment is a means to collect a number of products that are to be checked as a set. Currently, Intershop Commerce Management supports the following product assortments:

-
All products in all catalogs

-
All products in selected categories


Managing product assortments involves creating and deleting sets.

## Creating Product Assortments

To create a product assortment:

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Catalogs | Product Completeness.
This displays the overview page.
-
In the Product Completeness section, click Configure Product Assortments.
This displays the Product Assortment list.
-
Click New.
This displays the Product Assortment dialog.
-
Specify the details as necessary.
Mandatory data include the assortment name and the assortment type. The other details depend on the selected type.
-
Click OK.
This creates the assortment, and you are returned to the Product Assortment list.

## Deleting Product Assortments

To delete a product assortment:

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Catalogs | Product Completeness.
This displays the overview page.
-
In the Product Completeness section, click Configure Product Assortments.
This displays the Product Assortment list.
-
Select the assortment you intend to delete.
Use the checkbox in the row of the corresponding assortment.
-
Click Delete, and confirm the operation.
This deletes the selected assortment.