---
id: '74bae475458a55548cbd6aa270a2c7e3'
title: 'Public Release Note'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2763A2'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:04.125669+00:00'
---
IOM Connector is a set of cartridges that allows data exchange and communication between Intershop Commerce Management and Intershop Order Management. It is an extension (or "service") module for Intershop Commerce Management. As such, it requires a base version against which it can be deployed. The table below describes the version dependencies between those entities.

| IOM Connector | Intershop Commerce Management B2X | Intershop Order Management | |
|---|---|---|---|
| Version | 2.0 | 7.6 | 2.1 |

Below you find some general information about IOM Connector - both technical and business.

In a nutshell, Intershop set up with IOM Connector will affect the following:

Intershop Commerce Management B2X features, like order approval or additional order information, are fully compatible with IOM Connector. Orders will be exported to IOM only after the corresponding approval processes are completed. In addition, any information stored to the order - such as message to merchant, cost center and project - will be exported as well.

As with any Intershop feature that connects ICM to another system, all features are realized using the Managed Services framework.

Intershop recommends to create and manage the IOM Services in the context of channels.

The component set f_iomconnector (IOM Connector) is composed of the following cartridges:

There are also a few test and development cartridges:

Term | Description |
|---|---|
| ICM | The abbreviation for Intershop Commerce Management |
| IOM | The abbreviation for Intershop Order Management |

As mentioned before, the IOM Connector is to be set up alongside a standard ICM installation. It adds additional cartridges that define the following managed services:


Both ICM and IOM follow the same hierarchical concept of organizations that have expandable entities. These entities differ, however. In ICM one *sales organization *may have multiple *channels*, while in IOM one *sales organization *may have multiple *shop*s.

Intershop recommends to consider *channel*s and *shops *as synonyms in the context of this document and your setup. Although not the same, they are in close relation to each other.

As mentioned before, a couple IOM Services, although not mandatory, are to be created in the context of channel. This way you can ensure that the communication exchange between ICM and IOM is realized on the intended level.

The services mentioned in the previous chapter are realized with web services. They are exchanging data between the two systems in a specific format, but they also need to be configured. Web services require an *end point* that is different for each of them. In the table below you can see the end points, with IOM server host/address shown as a placeholder.

| Service | End point |
|---|---|
| IOM Order Service | https://<iom-host>/webservices/OrderService/v1.1 |
| IOM Order State Service | https://<iom-host>/webservices/OrderStateService/v1.0 |
| IOM Download Service | https://<iom-host>/webservices/DownloadService/v1.0 |
| IOM Reverse Service | https://<iom-host>/webservices/ReverseService/v1.0 |
| IOM Inventory Service | https://<iom-host>/servlets/services/ |

When doing the configuration mentioned in the step above, you must also specify a shop. Usually, a channel in ICM represents a shop in IOM.

Consumers of the services must authorize themselves to IOM before any data is processed - either as input or output. To realize this, you must create a user in IOM with permissions necessary for the operations performed by the service. An easy way to ensure this is to assign the `ShopServiceClient`

role to the corresponding user. However, you may fine grain the permissions for each service as they all will need a user name/password combination.

If you want to use prepared demo data (you do not if you do not know what this is) here are some prepared values:

| Consumer Web-Service | consumer_ws |
|---|---|
| Company | inSPIRED |
| Shop(s) | inTRONICS |
| inTRONIC Business |

Both systems exchange data so they need a common ground as a base for this communication. The following table shows the mappings between IOM and ICM:

| Identifier | IOM | ICM |
|---|---|---|
| Product | Shop's product ID | Channel's product SKU |
| Customer | Shop's customer number | Customer No |
| Order | Shop's order No | Order document number |

These identifiers must be identical for each item in both systems. For example, if an order with a line item that has the SKU *00910* is placed and then exported to IOM, the web services layer will report an error if the product with this product ID is not present in IOM.

IOM Connector provides instruments that route any order placed from ICM to IOM. To use this feature, you must configure the order export (see [Snippet - ICM IOM Configuration - Order Export (valid to 2.17)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1817578114) ), which depends on an existing service configuration (see [Configure IOM Order Service](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1817578012/Configure+IOM+Order+Service)). As mentioned before, on the configuration page you may tweak the export settings, but we generally use "on order creation" trigger.

The look and feel and the business processes in the standard ICM is not altered in any way, but placed orders are routed to IOM.

| Order Confirmation in ICM | Order details in IOM |
|---|---|

Order approval and additional order information work out of the box with order export to IOM. Orders are exported to IOM once they are approved by the responsible user(s) in the customer's organization. All approval and additional information details are exported to IOM upon order placement. They are accessible in the *Attributes* section.

The table below lists the mapping of data exchanged between ICM and IOM.

| ICM | IOM |
|---|---|
| Order details | |
| Order Document Number | Shop Order ID |
| Creation Date | Sales Information / Order |
| Payment Method | Payment Method |
| Tax Rate | Tax Rate |
| Order total | Order total |
| Invoice & Shipping Address | |
| Company | Company |
| Salutation | Salutation |
| First Name | First Name |
| Last Name | Last Name |
| Address 1 | Street |
| Address 2 | Address Suffix 1 |
| Address 3 | Address Suffix 2 |
| ZIP/Postal Code | ZIP/Postal Code |
| City | City |
| Country | Country |
| Phone | Phone |
| Line Item Information | |
| Product SKU | Shop product ID |
| Qiantity | Quantity |
| Tax Rate | Tax Rate |
| Price | Price |

This feature is governed by *IOM Order State Service. *Once this service is configured and activated, order status information in *My Account -> Order history *is taken in real time from IOM.

My Account -> Order History | Order search in IOM |
|---|---|

Real time means that order statuses are updated the moment they are updated in IOM. Thus any action taken in IOM, for example *Confirmation of delivery*, will be shown in ICM the moment when someone requests their order history. In the table below you find the mapping between order statuses in the two systems.

| Intershop Commerce Management | Intershop Order Management |
|---|---|
| transmitted | commissioned |
| shipped | shipped |
| in validation | check failed |
| returned | returned |

Customers are able to trigger returns of orders. Once the order is shipped, and its delivery confirmation is tracked in IOM, its status is changed to shipped. From the order history page, every order that has been shipped can be triggered for return by clicking the *Return *link. For each individual item, a return quantity and a reason can be specified. Return reasons are requested from IOM and available for selection to the customers.

The required service for order return is *IOM Reverse Service*. Without it configured and activated, customers will not be able to use this feature.

Once someone has requested a return, they will be able to download or directly print a return slip. This return slip can be downloaded from the link shown on the *Prepare Return Documents* page.

As with the rest of IOM features, this one is also realized by using managed service - *IOM Download Service*. You must configure it first before using it.

The main task that the Inventory Service does is to check the product availability status for a particular product in IOM. IOM Inventory Service performs in real time, but at the same time it supports caching the results for a given time interval (e.g., 5 seconds). When the page with the customer's desired product is open, the Inventory Service sends a request to IOM that asks for the ATP (available to promise) status. If the product is available then the customer will see the button *Add to Cart* and a field in which to specify the desired quantity of the product. On the other hand, if the product is not available, on the screen will be shown the following: a button with the text *Notify me when available*. If in the service configuration the checkbox *Availability check on failure* is not selected, then in the case of a problem with the communication with the IOM system, the *Simple Inventory Service* will be activated and the selected product will be checked for ATP (ICM) in the local database.

* *

IOM Connector release package is available via Intershop's public Nexus server. To add it to your release you must:

The IOM Connector contains parts that are distributed as binary artifacts (see iomConnectorCartridges below) and parts that are distributed as source (see productionCartridges below), so they can be copied and modified easily in a project.

You can retrieve the source cartridges from the public Nexus under com.intershop.public.source.f_iomconnector.

`http://<your-reposerver:port>/nexus/content/repositories/ish-releases/com.intershop.public.source/f_iomconnector/2.0.0/zips/f_iomconnector-zip-src-2.0.0.zip`

Unzip and copy the component set contents to your project directory <ProjectHome>/projects/intershop-project/<myCustomComponentset>.

Long path names on Windows

On Windows certain tools have trouble dealing with path names longer than 255 characters. When in doubt, please use 7-Zip 15.12 to uncompress the source packages.

Edit the gradle.properties in your component set and add the following:

# dependency versions ... version.com.intershop.services.iomconnector.ac_iomconnector_common = 2.0.0 version.com.intershop.services.iomconnector.ac_iomconnector_order = 2.0.0 version.com.intershop.services.iomconnector.ac_iomconnector_inventory = 2.0.0 version.com.intershop.services.iomconnector.init_iomconnector = 2.0.0 ...

`ac_iomconnector_orderhistory`

, `as_iomconnector`

and `demo_iomconnector`

.Change `build.gradle`

of `ac_iomconnector_orderhistory`


| Find | Replace with |
|---|---|
`compile project(':ac_iomconnector_common')` | `compile group: 'com.intershop.services.iomconnector', name: '` |
`compile project(':ac_iomconnector_order')` | `compile group: 'com.intershop.services.iomconnector', name: '` |

Change `build.gradle`

of `as_iomconnector`


| Find | Replace with |
|---|---|
`compile project(':ac_iomconnector_common')` | `compile group: 'com.intershop.services.iomconnector', name: '` |
`compile project(':ac_iomconnector_order')` | `compile group: 'com.intershop.services.iomconnector', name: '` |
`compile group: 'com.intershop.responsive', name: 'as_responsive_b2b'` | `compile project(':as_responsive_b2b')` |

Change `build.gradle`

of `demo_iomconnector`


| Find | Replace with |
|---|---|
`compile project(':ac_iomconnector_common')` | `compile group: 'com.intershop.services.iomconnector', name: '` |

Re-publish your component set.

To add IOM Connector you may either:

Open the file build.gradle of your assembly, add a list of IOM Connector's cartridges in `assembly`

directive and include this list into assembly's cartridges

assembly { ... cartridges { def iomConnectorCartridges = [ 'ac_iomconnector_common', 'ac_iomconnector_order', 'ac_iomconnector_inventory', 'init_iomconnector', ] include (*(iomConnectorCartridges.collect {"com.intershop.services.iomconnector:$it"}), in:[development, test, production]) def productionCartridges = [ '<your-cartridge1>', '<your-cartridge2>', 'ac_iomconnector_orderhistory', 'as_iomconnector', 'demo_iomconnector' ] include (*(productionCartridges.collect {"<your-assembly-group>:$it"}), in:[development, test, production]) order = listFromAssembly('<your-assembly>') + storefrontCartridges + iomConnectorCartridges + productionCartridges + initCartridges + developerCartridges + testCartridges } ... }

In the same build.gradle file add add the following two cartridges to `assemblyBuild.database`

.

assembly { ... } assemblyBuild { database { inherit('<your-assembly>') initCartridges = [ 'ac_iomconnector_common', 'demo_iomconnector', 'init_iomconnector' ] } }

Alternatively, you can create a new assembly inheriting from an Intershop Commerce Management-based assembly.

For details about creating a new assembly, seeExclude conflicting versions from the assembly build.

Add the following directive at the end of build.gradle file of your assembly. If you already have defined configurations.all directive just enrich it with the excludes listed below.

configurations.all { exclude group: 'org.apache.geronimo.specs', module: 'geronimo-activation_1.1_spec' exclude group: 'org.apache.geronimo.specs', module: 'geronimo-jta_1.1_spec' exclude group: 'org.apache.geronimo.specs', module: 'geronimo-javamail_1.4_spec' exclude group: 'org.apache.geronimo.specs', module: 'geronimo-stax-api_1.0_spec' exclude group: 'stax', module: 'stax-api' exclude group: 'asm', module: 'asm' exclude group: 'javax.servlet', module: 'servlet-api' }

Define version directives for IOM Connector cartridges.

Open `gradle.properties`

of your assembly and add following lines:

# IOM binary delivered cartridges (Nexus) version.com.intershop.services.iomconnector.ac_iomconnector_common = 2.0.0 version.com.intershop.services.iomconnector.ac_iomconnector_order = 2.0.0 version.com.intershop.services.iomconnector.ac_iomconnector_inventory = 2.0.0 version.com.intershop.services.iomconnector.init_iomconnector = 2.0.0 # IOM source delivered cartridges (local) version.com.intershop.responsive.ac_iomconnector_orderhistory = YourAssemblyVersion-local version.com.intershop.responsive.as_iomconnector = YourAssemblyVersion-local version.com.intershop.responsive.demo_iomconnector = YourAssemblyVersion-local

Define a unique order sequence.

Both Intershop Commerce Management and Intershop Order Management assign an unique identifier to any order placed in the corresponding system. These identifiers are often referred to as "order document number" or "order ID". In order to have a seamless integration between the two systems you must synchronize these identifiers. Since ICM has the "leading role" as the orders are created and submitted from customers in the web shop, system administrators need to apply an additional configuration to the order number generation.

IOM Connector requires an order number generation that provides unique order numbers for both systems.

If you are deploying IOM Connector with ICM and IOM anew, in other words you have no orders placed in both systems, it is safe to skip this step. However, you may want to define unique order sequence just in case. All you need to do is to negotiate a starting number with all parties involved and then add a deployment step that alters /share/system/config/cluster/database.properties file, namely the property `intershop.sequence.startsWith`

. Open settings.gradle of your assembly and add following lines:

deployment { ... filters { overrideProperties('uniqueOrderSequence') { dir = target.shareDirectory include 'system/config/cluster/database.properties' properties['intershop.sequence.startsWith'] = <negotiated-order-sequence> } } }

For more details about see [Recipe: Change Deployed File Content With Filters](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1783302208#Cookbook-GradleDeploymentTools(7.4CI-ICM7.7)-ApplyContentFilter).

After creating and appropriately configuring the assembly, you must deploy it to the intended target environment.

For details about deploying an assembly, see [Recipe: Run the Deployment (Initial Installation / Upgrade / Downgrade)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1783302208#Cookbook-GradleDeploymentTools(7.4CI-ICM7.7)-Run-the-Deployment)

You must run a database initialization to use the IOM connector.

DBInit is necessary for the following cartridges:

To execute full database initialization use:

gradlew dbinit


To execute the database initialization use on selected set of cartridges:

dbinit -t=ac_iomconnector_common,demo_iomconnector,init_iomconnector

For details about managing assembly artifacts, see:

In order to deploy IOM Connector with Intershop Commerce Management, you do not need to configure anything.

For a proper interaction of the two systems (IOM and ICM), however, some configuration is necessary. For more detailed information on how to do this, refer to [Guide - ICM & IOM Configuration Tasks](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1821711350).

Additionally in order to get the IOM working with the ICM 7.6 demo scenario (Inspired storefront) specific demo content needs to be uploaded into the IOM. The description and the content can be found here: [Guide - IOM Demo Data Setup for IOM Connector 2.0, 3.0 and 4.0](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1821704669/Guide+-+IOM+Demo+Data+Setup+for+IOM+Connector+2.0%2C+3.0+and+4.0)

Do not use warranties. Intershop Order Management currently does not support *service product types*.

Both Intershop Commerce Management and Intershop Order Management assign an unique identifier to any order placed in the corresponding system. These identifiers are often referred to as *order document number* or *order ID*. In order to have a seamless integration between the two systems you must synchronize these identifiers. Since ICM has the "leading role" as the orders are created and submitted from customers in the web shop, system administrators need to apply an additional configuration to the order number generation.

Intershop Commerce Management's server(s) should be turned off before the following steps are executed.

Go to *<server-installation-dir>/local/bin* and execute *environment.<bat|sh>*.

./iomconnector/server/local/bin/environment.sh

Go to *<server-installation-dir>/local/tools/misc* and execute `ant export-sequence-info -f database.xml`

.

[/iomconnector/server/local/tools/misc]# ant export-sequence-info -f database.xml Buildfile: /iomconnector/server/local/tools/misc/database.xml dbenvironment.environment.decrypt: dbenvironment.environment: environment: export-sequence-info: [sql] Executing commands [sql] 1 of 1 SQL statements executed successfully [sql] Executing commands [sql] 1 of 1 SQL statements executed successfully log: [echo] [02/17/2016 03:20:56 PM] The used enfinity specific sequence informations were successfully exported to file 'sequences-info.properties'. BUILD SUCCESSFUL Total time: 2 seconds

In *<server-installation-dir>/local/tools/misc* open the newly generated file called *sequences-info.properties.*

It looks like:

#,LAST_NUMBER,INCREMENT_BY,SEQUENCE_NAME,DOMAIN_SPECIFIC,DOMAINNAME,IDENTIFIER #,51,10,SQHHBAQDGBYQAAAAFUCBLM4M0_,TRUE,inSPIRED-inTRONICS,SellerOrder.DocumentNo.NfsKAB1PpEUAAAFTFT89kGWR # Largest last_number is: SellerOrder.DocumentNo.NfsKAB1PpEUAAAFTFT89kGWR - inSPIRED-inTRONICS #intershop.sequence.blockSize = 10 #intershop.sequence.startsWith = 51

Memorize or write down the number of `intershop.sequence.startsWith`

and `intershop.sequence.blockSize`

.

`intershop.sequence.startsWith`

taken at step 3. You may also add a date prefix to the order number, or put a unique machine identifier, as long as it contains only numbers.`intershop.sequence.blockSize`

to it - Remove `#`

from line `intershop.sequence.startWith=`

and change its value to the unused order sequence determined in step 7.

################################################################################ ## ## Series (Sequence) Creation Options ## ## ## series numberPattern settings ## #intershop.sequence.numberPattern=00000000 ## ## blockSize - "increment by <n>" ## startsWith - "start with <n>" ## cacheSize - "cache <n>" or "nocache" if <n> = 0 ## orderFlag - "order" if true or "noorder" if false ## #intershop.sequence.blockSize=50 intershop.sequence.startsWith=20160128017074 #intershop.sequence.cacheSize=0 #intershop.sequence.orderFlag=true

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.