---
id: '756906423b948f86c14375b8a3154c17'
title: 'Public Release Note'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2B9731'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:39:46.102663+00:00'
---
Welcome to Intershop Order Management 3.1!

*Intershop Order Management* (IOM) is an application of the Intershop Commerce Platform that is designed to combine omni-channel commerce processes into one system. It automates and streamlines the life cycle of orders and payments. IOM processes orders from multiple touch points (web shop, mobile shop, call center and more), allocates them to multiple fulfillment solutions (fulfillment centers, drop-ship distributors, physical stores and more), and tracks all order and payment transactions.

IOM offers a centralized platform for managing distributed inventory, order, invoice and payment life cycles, and provides call center functionality, enabling real-time visibility into customers' purchasing behavior, stock levels, payments, and more. As part of the Intershop Commerce Solution, it utilizes the transaction, PIM and merchandising features.

IOM offers the possibility to tailor your business models as flexible and free as you need and depict them in your e-commerce environment. The order management system adjusts the order processing for various sales channels and suppliers and can be seamlessly integrated with existing components of your IT environment.

| Term | Description |
|---|---|
| API | Application Programming Interface |
| Docker | An operating system-level virtualization software. Also see Kubernetes and Helm. |
| Helm | A package manager for |
| ICM | Abbreviation for Intershop Commerce Management |
| IOM | Abbreviation for Intershop Order Management |
| Kubernetes | An open-source system for automating deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications. Also see |
| OMS | Abbreviation for Order Management System, the technical name of the IOM |
| OMT | Abbreviation for Order Management Tool , the graphical management tool of the IOM |
| PIM | Product Information Management |
| REST | Representational State Transfer |
| SOAP | Simple Object Access Protocol |

With the introduction of the new IOM Order REST API in this version, more information are available and will be displayed in OMT.

Also, see [Public Release Note - Intershop Order Management 3.1 | New IOM Order REST API (2.0)](https://knowledge.intershop.com#PublicReleaseNote-IntershopOrderManagement3.1-NewIOMOrderRESTAPI(2.0)) and [Overview - Intershop Order Management REST API](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1910440913/Overview+-+Intershop+Order+Management+REST+API).

Also see [Public Release Note - IOM dbaccount Docker Image 1.2.0.0](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1917353436/Public+Release+Note+-+IOM+dbaccount+Docker+Image+1.2.0.0).

IOM Order REST API 2.0 offers the two methods initially to:

With the introduction of this API an order can have multiple delivery addresses, so-called **shipping buckets**, where a shipping bucket can have:

Also, **multiple tax entries **at the same level are possible now.

Finally, for a shop, different orders can now have **different currencies** if they are not ordered by the same customer.

The specification can be found in the delivery *doc/REST/ *or at [Overview - Intershop Order Management REST API](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1910440913/Overview+-+Intershop+Order+Management+REST+API).

The IOM SOAP API to place an order silently ignored unknown shipping methods or mapped them to default "Unknown Shipping Method" when configured accordingly.

The IOM Order REST API 2.0 will refuse orders with unknown methods unless that mapping is defined.

See [Guide - IOM Shop Onboarding | Carrier](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1917329114/Guide+-+IOM+Shop+Onboarding#Guide-IOMShopOnboarding-carrier) and [Guide - IOM 3.1 Migration of Business Configuration](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1917347420/Guide+-+IOM+3.1+Migration+of+Business+Configuration) for more details.

For installation instructions see:

Docker-images are available at:

IOM Helm charts are available at:

For a complete list of all interfaces please see [Overview - Intershop Order Management REST API](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1910440913/Overview+-+Intershop+Order+Management+REST+API) and [Overview - IOM Interfaces](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1811750501/Overview+-+IOM+Interfaces).

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.