---
id: '7589985285235569086f741c08f67d5c'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/28S421'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:03.714152+00:00'
---
The Omni-Channel Services Toolset (OCST) is a collection of frameworks and libraries, which enables fast, standardized development of business Web applications. It also contains a reference implementation to demonstrate the functionality of this toolset - the Contact Center. The OCST including the reference implementation is delivered as source code package and is intended to be modified and extended directly in the source code. There is no automatic delivery or patch process - patches or hotfixes have to be merged manually.

Build and deployment use standard package managers for JavaScript and Web Components NPM ([https://nodejs.org](https://nodejs.org/)) and Bower ([https://bower.io/](https://bower.io/)). For building the Ember application the command line interface EmberCLI ([https://ember-cli.com/](https://ember-cli.com/)) is used.

The following chapter describes how the development environment has to be set up step by step.

Tools

Testing

ECMA Script 6

Models, Adapters & Serializers

Other readings

Open command shell:

a. Install bower.

npm install -g bower

b. Install EmberCLI.

npm install -g ember-cli

`com.intershop.public.source/ocst`

) and unzip it to the desired installation directoryExecute:

npm install bower install

Execute:

ember build --environment=production

`--environment=production`

" forces Ember to generate all CSS and JS files with minified content for performance reasons (recommended).`"/dist"`

.Note

The ember application is automatically built in development mode - without minification - when the server is started without calling the command `ember build`

before.

The OCST is completely decoupled from the Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) and uses only the REST API to access data and commerce functionality.

Therefore the host and path of the ICM REST API have to be configured in the *environment.js* file located in the *config* sub directory. The default value is `https://localhost:443.`


ENV.ocst = { ... host: 'https://localhost:443', namespace: 'INTERSHOP/rest/WFS/ContactCenter/-', ... };

It might be useful to limit the allowed payment methods for the Contact Center since the Call Center Agent acts on behalf of a customer and does not know any Credit Card PIN etc.

Therefore the list of allowed payment methods (white-list) can be configured in the configuration file *config/environment.js*. The property is named `paymentMethodsWhiteList`

. The payment methods are identified by their ID defined in the Intershop Commerce Management System.

ENV.ocst = { ... paymentMethodsWhiteList: [ 'ISH_INVOICE_TOTAL_ZERO', 'ISH_INVOICE', 'ISH_CASH_ON_DELIVERY', 'ISH_DEBIT_TRANSFER', ] ... };

The OCST/Contact Center version number defined inside the *package.json* is displayed in the storefront as well as in the Ember inspector add-on for browsers (see screenshot).

Execute:

ember server

To run the server on a different port, the port has to be appended as parameter:

server --port 8080

For automatic rebuilding the */tmp* and */dist* directories should be deleted before calling `ember server`

.

This might be necessary on Windows environments where sometimes privilege issues occur. Windows users might use the batch file *serve.bat* which automatically deletes these directories and afterwards executes `ember server`

.

All installed add-ons are listed in the *ocst/package.json* with their specific version to be used. To update an add-on:

Change the version number in this file.

.. "devDependencies": { .. "ember-composable-helpers": "2.0.1", "ember-cookies": "0.0.11", "ember-data": "^2.10.0", "ember-export-application-global": "^1.0.5", "ember-i18n": "4.5.0", "ember-keyboard-shortcuts": "0.3.0", "ember-load-initializers": "^0.5.1", "ember-moment": "7.3.0", "ember-resolver": "^2.0.3", "ember-route-action-helper": "2.0.2", "ember-truth-helpers": "1.3.0", "emberx-select": "3.0.0", .. }, .. }

Repeat the setup step [Download/Install External Libraries](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Guide-OCST2.0Development-ExternalLibraries) to download the libraries via package management.

In case new add-ons are needed they can easily be installed:

Use the Ember CLI command `ember install`

.** **

ember install <addon-git-name> ## e.g.: ember install ember-i18n

An useful overview of available Ember add-ons can be found on the following external websites:

The OCST 2.0 has been completely reworked under the hood compared to version 1.2. One of the main reasons was to enable a test driven development. This approach implies that tests exist for all development artifacts on all layers and new code is developed together with its appropriate test. This recipe describes how existing tests can be executed. For more information about how to write tests see [Cookbook - OCST 2.0](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/c/ENFDEVDOC/Cookbook+-+OCST+2.0).

All test types are located in the folder *test*. Below tests there are several folders for the different test types.

Run tests in silent mode.

ember test // phantom js tests

This requires an installed PhantomJS library. If the library is not installed yet, it can be done via npm install (param '-g' for global module):

npm install -g phantomjs

Alternatively you may run tests in a browser.

A browser window is automatically opened when the test runs with parameter --server:

ember test --server // browser tests

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.