---
id: '795e4787fa6ed5ffbb03a653f72c6b6d'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/234L00'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:38:08.827405+00:00'
---
Gifting is all about gift packaging, i.e. preparing an order or product respectively in a way that it is sent in the shape of a gift (e.g. it is sent as a birthday present). It is NOT about gift cards that can be ordered and redeemed later on.

The supported core features are:

Name | Description |
|---|---|
Gift option | Select one of gift wrap, gift message or packing slip message |
Gift option marker | A mark that indicates that a gift option is or will be added |
Gift wrap | The wrap around a related wrapable product |
Gift message | The card with a message for the related product |
Packing slip message | A message on the packing slip when delivered |
Shipping bucket | A logical grouping of items with the same shipping method and ship-to address |

Providing gift wrapping to the customer basically consists of 2 steps:

Regarding gift wrapping, the *Channel | Applications | <ApplicationName> - Shopping Cart & Checkout* section provides the ability to enable or disable gift wrapping for the channel. This setting has an impact on each place within the storefront where gifting functionality (in this case the gift wrapping) is provided to the customer.

Setting up products for gift wrapping itself consists of multiple steps:

Due to the fact that a gift wrap is managed the same as every other product, the full feature set of products is available to it, especially various attributes and prices. The system classification catalog category (*Gift Wrap*) is prepared with 3 custom attributes you need to know as they influence the store behavior:

The content shown to the user on CMS-managed pages are also CMS components. These have one for gift wrapping showing whether or not this feature is available (for the related product) in terms of:

Seeing this kind of indicator (*Gift wrap available*, *Gift message available*), the customer will immediately know if he can later on choose a gift wrap or not. As you can see, gift wrap information is always somehow related to another product (it is linked to) - this is why a gift wrap will be selectable at item level during checkout.

Providing gift messaging to the customer basically consists of 2 steps:

Regarding gift messaging, the *Channel | Applications | <ApplicationName> - Shopping Cart & Checkout* section provides the ability to enable or disable gift messaging for the channel. This setting has impact on each place within the storefront where gifting functionality (in this case the gift messaging) is provided to the customer. In addition, you can restrict the length of the message that is printed on the card.

Setting up products for gift messaging itself consists of multiple steps:

Due to the fact that a gift message is managed just as every other product, the full feature set of products is available to it, especially various attributes and prices. The system classification catalog category (*Gift Message*) is prepared with 3 custom attributes you need to know as they influence the store behavior:

The content shown to the user on CMS-managed pages are also CMS components, having one for gift messaging showing information if this feature is available (for the related product) in terms of:

Seeing this kind of indicator, the customer will immediately know if he can later on choose a gift message or not. As you can see, gift message information is always somehow related to another product (it is linked to) - this is why a gift message will be selectable on item level during checkout.

Providing packing slip messaging to the customer is basically just 1 step:

Regarding packing slip messaging, the *Channel | Applications | <ApplicationName> - Shopping Cart & Checkout* section provides the ability to enable or disable gift messaging for the channel. This setting has impact on each place within the storefront where gifting functionality (in this case the packing slip messaging) is provided to the customer. In addition, you can restrict the length of the message that is printed on the packing slip.

The content shown to the user on CMS-managed pages are also CMS components, having one for packing slip messaging showing information if this feature is available (for the related product) in terms of:

Seeing this kind of indicator, the customer will immediately know if they can later on choose to add a packing slip message. As you can see, packing slip message information is not related to any product (but rather a shipping bucket) - this is why a packing slip message will be selectable on shipping bucket level during checkout.

During checkout there are 3 main actions than can be performed by the customer in context of gifting functionality:

As a line item can be of quantity greater than one, there is the need to split it up such that gift wrapping/messaging can be applied on item level instead of just line item level. So let's say my cart contains one line item of quantity 5:

Now for Christmas each of my 3 children should get one, but as they have different favorite colors, I'd like to add a gift wrap individually. The one for myself and my wife do not need to be wrapped:

The line item-to-item splitting as described above is intended to realize such use case. Any non-gifted split items (of the same root line item) will not become separate instances but again collapse to one line item with the corresponding quantity.

As each added gift wrap or gift message can imply an additional cost, this has to be shown as part of the cart's/order's cost summary. The actual approach is to show a sum of all such gifting costs as one line within the cost summary section (interpreting gifting as a service) - they are not shown in an itemized manner.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.