---
id: '79fdadad36783784f0418565a812a05d'
title: 'Content Assets'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32374T'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:13.226410+00:00'
---
# Content Assets

Content management is based on the following assets:

-
Pages and Page Variants

A page can be understood as an "entry point" to the storefront, whereas a page variant constitutes the "container" object that holds the actual content. Pages must have assigned at least one and can have assigned multiple page variants. Individual page variants can be subject to personalization, time control, etc.

Pages are distinguished along the following dimensions:

-
Product pages: are assigned to products, and only their associated page variants can be accessed and modified.

-
Category pages: are assigned to categories, and only their associated page variants can be accessed and modified.

-
Content pages: constitute "static" pages like FAQ, T&C or imprint pages, are runtime artifacts, i.e., can be created or removed without development and deployment efforts.

-
System pages: constitute "functional" pages like basket, checkout or profile pages, are development artifacts, i.e., cannot be created or removed on runtime (marked by ).


Pages are of a specific page type, and page variants are of a specific variant type. These types basically specify the structure (i.e., the slots, see below) of the final page shown in the storefront and define any parameters required for rendering the page. The types cannot be changed once the pages or page variants are created.

Depending on the type, each page or page variant may require a specific set of configuration parameters, e.g., links to categories, images or other specific content. Both rendering and configuration parameters are defined in Intershop Studio. The values for configuration parameters, however, can be edited in Intershop Commerce Management or directly in the storefront, using the Design View, see

[Storefront Design View (Responsive Starter Store)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/content_management/concept_storefront_design_view.html). -
-
Slots

Slots indicate areas of a page variant or a component into which content (i.e., components) is "filled". Depending on the slot definition, two types of content associations are possible:

Table 1. Slot-component associations Type Description Implicit Slots can be dynamically assigned content components, i.e., based on implicit parameter and pipeline definitions. Explicit Slots can be statically assigned content components, i.e., based on user-defined, explicit associations. -
Components

Slots are designed to be filled with components. The components provide the actual content displayed on the final page. Components are of a specific component type, which defines the structure (slots, see above) and any parameters required for rendering the component.

Depending on the component type, each component may require a specific set of configuration parameters, e.g., a link to a product or an image. Both rendering and configuration parameters are defined in Intershop Studio. The values for configuration parameters, however, can be edited in Intershop Commerce Management or directly in the storefront, using the Design View, see

[Storefront Design View (Responsive Starter Store)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/content_management/concept_storefront_design_view.html).With "dynamic slots", i.e., using implicit component associations, all components of a defined type can be displayed automatically in the corresponding slot without being explicitly assigned.

Tip:Intershop Commerce Management can display a list of component types, showing the parameters, slots, etc., that are available in a given management context. -
Includes

An include can be conceived of as an "entry point" for individual components. There are two types of includes:

-
System includes: are development artifacts and thus, their life cycle is completely managed by the system; on runtime, users can only configure and assign components to them.

-
User-generated includes: constitute a means to define reusable sets of "display configurations" for business objects; can currently be created by catalog managers in the context of catalog categories and products to allow for defining specific "views", or by content managers with new view contexts.


-
-
View Contexts

View contexts relate business objects like products or categories with pages or includes for a given context like category browsing or checkout. That is, they represent an environment where given objects are to be displayed in a certain way.

-
Page Templates

Page templates constitute page variant "models". A page template is based on a variant type, thus defining the structure and rendering parameters for the page variants derived from the template. Page templates can be "prefilled" with components (which cannot be modified in derived page variants) and can hold placeholders, see below.

-
Component Templates

Component templates constitute component "models". A component template is based on a component type, thus defining the structure and rendering parameters for the components derived from the template. Component templates can be "prefilled" with other components (which cannot be modified in derived components) and can, if allowed by the type, hold placeholders, see below.

-
Placeholders

Placeholders define editable areas in page variants or components that are derived from templates. If provided by their corresponding types, page or component templates can "propagate" their slots to their derived page variants or components via placeholders.