---
id: '7a0f857d14408541572e2b70cad5a736'
title: 'Reference'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/29999M'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:37:27.927905+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/29999M

This API specification is available for download as an Open API 3.0 YAML file:

# References

The following page lists available REST APIs for ICM 7.10 and their version dependencies:

# API Specification

openapi: 3.0.1 info: title: Cost Center description: "The Intershop Cost Center REST API contains resources for managing\ \ cost centers. This includes creating, reading, updating and deleting cost centers.\ \ \nAlso buyers for cost centers can be managed, including according budget information. " contact: name: Intershop Communications AG url: http://intershop.com version: 1.0.0 servers: - url: "/INTERSHOP/rest/{serverGroup}/{siteName}/{appUrl}" description: Intershop ICM Server variables: serverGroup: description: The server group default: WFS siteName: description: The site name default: inSPIRED-inTRONICS-Site appUrl: description: The application URL identifier enum: - smb-responsive - "-" default: smb-responsive paths: /customers/{CustomerKey}/costcenters: get: tags: - Cost Center summary: Returns all cost centers description: This operation returns a list of links to all cost centers of the customer as well as some of their properties. operationId: getCostCenters parameters: - name: CustomerKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.smb.capi.resource.customer.CustomerListResource responses: "200": description: OK - The list of cost centers. content: application/json: schema: type: array description: OK - The list of cost centers. items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/LinkRO' "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. "404": description: Not found - The customer could not be found. security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: public javax.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterListResource.getCostCenters() x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterListResource post: tags: - Cost Center summary: Creates a new cost center description: This operation creates a new cost center. operationId: createCostCenter parameters: - name: CustomerKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.smb.capi.resource.customer.CustomerListResource requestBody: description: The information about the new cost center. For the costcenter owner only the login is required. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/NewCostCenterRO' responses: "201": description: Created - The new cost center. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/LinkRO' "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. "404": description: Not found - The customer could not be found. security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: public javax.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterListResource.createCostCenter(com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resourceobject.NewCostCenterRO) x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterListResource /customers/{CustomerKey}/costcenters/{CostCenterKey}: get: tags: - Cost Center summary: Returns cost center details description: This operation returns detail information about the cost center with the given ID. operationId: getCostCenter parameters: - name: CustomerKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.smb.capi.resource.customer.CustomerListResource - name: CostCenterKey in: path description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the UUID\ \ of the cost center is also supported)" required: true schema: type: string description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the\ \ UUID of the cost center is also supported)" example: "123456" example: "123456" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterListResource responses: "200": description: OK - The cost center with the given ID. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/CostCenterRO' "401": description: Unathorized - The user could not be authenticated. "404": description: Not found - The customer or the cost center could not be found. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: public javax.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterItemResource.getCostCenter() x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterItemResource delete: tags: - Cost Center summary: Removes the cost center description: This operation removes the cost center with the given ID. operationId: deleteCostCenter parameters: - name: CustomerKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.smb.capi.resource.customer.CustomerListResource - name: CostCenterKey in: path description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the UUID\ \ of the cost center is also supported)" required: true schema: type: string description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the\ \ UUID of the cost center is also supported)" example: "123456" example: "123456" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterListResource responses: "204": description: No content - The cost center was deleted. "401": description: Unathorized - The user could not be authenticated. "404": description: Not found - The customer or the cost center could not be found. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: public javax.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterItemResource.deleteCostCenter() x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterItemResource patch: tags: - Cost Center summary: Updates the cost center description: This operation updates the cost center information. operationId: updateCostCenter parameters: - name: CustomerKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.smb.capi.resource.customer.CustomerListResource - name: CostCenterKey in: path description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the UUID\ \ of the cost center is also supported)" required: true schema: type: string description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the\ \ UUID of the cost center is also supported)" example: "123456" example: "123456" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterListResource requestBody: description: The new information about the cost center. For the cost center owner only the login is required. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/UpdateCostCenterRO' responses: "200": description: OK - The updated cost center. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/CostCenterRO' "401": description: Unathorized - The user could not be authenticated. "404": description: Not found - The customer or the cost center could not be found. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: public javax.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterItemResource.updateCostCenter(com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resourceobject.UpdateCostCenterRO) x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterItemResource /customers/{CustomerKey}/costcenters/{CostCenterKey}/buyers: get: tags: - Cost Center summary: Returns all buyers for the cost center description: "This operation returns a list of links to all assigned buyers\ \ for the given cost center, as well as some of their properties." operationId: getCostCenterBuyers parameters: - name: CustomerKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.smb.capi.resource.customer.CustomerListResource - name: CostCenterKey in: path description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the UUID\ \ of the cost center is also supported)" required: true schema: type: string description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the\ \ UUID of the cost center is also supported)" example: "123456" example: "123456" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterListResource responses: "200": description: OK - The cost center buyers. content: application/json: schema: type: array description: OK - The cost center buyers. items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/LinkRO' "401": description: Unathorized - The user could not be authenticated. "404": description: Not found - The customer or cost center could not be found. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: public javax.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterBuyerListResource.getCostCenterBuyers() x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterBuyerListResource post: tags: - Cost Center summary: Adds a new cost center buyer description: This operation adds a new buyer to the given cost center. operationId: addCostCenterBuyer parameters: - name: CustomerKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.smb.capi.resource.customer.CustomerListResource - name: CostCenterKey in: path description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the UUID\ \ of the cost center is also supported)" required: true schema: type: string description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the\ \ UUID of the cost center is also supported)" example: "123456" example: "123456" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterListResource requestBody: description: The information about the new cost center buyer. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/NewCostCenterBuyerRO' responses: "200": description: OK - The added buyer. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/CostCenterUserRO' "401": description: Unathorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. "404": description: Not found - The customer or cost center could not be found. security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: public javax.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterBuyerListResource.addCostCenterBuyer(com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resourceobject.NewCostCenterBuyerRO) x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterBuyerListResource /customers/{CustomerKey}/costcenters/{CostCenterKey}/buyers/{CostCenterBuyerKey}: get: tags: - Cost Center summary: Returns information about a buyer of the cost center description: This operation returns information about a buyer of the cost center. operationId: getCostCenterBuyer parameters: - name: CustomerKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.smb.capi.resource.customer.CustomerListResource - name: CostCenterKey in: path description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the UUID\ \ of the cost center is also supported)" required: true schema: type: string description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the\ \ UUID of the cost center is also supported)" example: "123456" example: "123456" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterListResource - name: CostCenterBuyerKey in: path description: The login of the cost center buyer required: true schema: type: string description: The login of the cost center buyer example: pmiller@test.intershop.de example: pmiller@test.intershop.de x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterBuyerListResource responses: "200": description: OK - The buyer information. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/CostCenterUserRO' "401": description: Unathorized - The user could not be authenticated. "404": description: "Not found - The customer, cost center or buyer could not be\ \ found." "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: public javax.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterBuyerItemResource.getCostCenterBuyer() x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterBuyerItemResource delete: tags: - Cost Center summary: Removes the buyer from the cost center description: This operation removes the given buyer from the cost center. operationId: removeCostCenterBuyer parameters: - name: CustomerKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.smb.capi.resource.customer.CustomerListResource - name: CostCenterKey in: path description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the UUID\ \ of the cost center is also supported)" required: true schema: type: string description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the\ \ UUID of the cost center is also supported)" example: "123456" example: "123456" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterListResource - name: CostCenterBuyerKey in: path description: The login of the cost center buyer required: true schema: type: string description: The login of the cost center buyer example: pmiller@test.intershop.de example: pmiller@test.intershop.de x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterBuyerListResource responses: "204": description: No content - The cost center buyer was removed. "401": description: Unathorized - The user could not be authenticated. "404": description: "Not found - The customer, cost center or buyer could not be\ \ found." "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: public javax.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterBuyerItemResource.removeCostCenterBuyer() x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterBuyerItemResource patch: tags: - Cost Center summary: Updates the budget for a buyer of the cost center description: This operation updates the budget for a buyer of the cost center. operationId: updateCostCenterBuyer parameters: - name: CustomerKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.smb.capi.resource.customer.CustomerListResource - name: CostCenterKey in: path description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the UUID\ \ of the cost center is also supported)" required: true schema: type: string description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the\ \ UUID of the cost center is also supported)" example: "123456" example: "123456" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterListResource - name: CostCenterBuyerKey in: path description: The login of the cost center buyer required: true schema: type: string description: The login of the cost center buyer example: pmiller@test.intershop.de example: pmiller@test.intershop.de x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterBuyerListResource requestBody: description: The updated budget for the cost center buyer. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/UpdateCostCenterBuyerRO' responses: "200": description: OK - The cost center buyer with the updated budget. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/CostCenterUserRO' "401": description: Unathorized - The user could not be authenticated. "404": description: "Not found - The customer, cost center or buyer could not be\ \ found." "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: public javax.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterBuyerItemResource.updateCostCenterBuyer(com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resourceobject.UpdateCostCenterBuyerRO) x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterBuyerItemResource /customers/{CustomerKey}/users/{CustomerItemUserKey}/costcenters: get: tags: - Cost Center summary: Returns a list of cost centers of a business user description: This operation returns a list of all cost centers to which the user is assigned (as a buyer or approver). operationId: getCostCenters_1 parameters: - name: CustomerKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.smb.capi.resource.customer.CustomerListResource - name: CustomerItemUserKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.smb.capi.resource.user.CustomerItemUserListResource responses: "200": description: OK - The list of cost centers. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/UserCostCenterLinkROCollection' text/xml: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/UserCostCenterLinkROCollection' "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. "404": description: Not found - The customer or user could not be found or does not support cost centers. security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: public com.intershop.application.storefront.rest.b2b.capi.user.costcenter.resourceobject.UserCostCenterLinkROCollection com.intershop.application.storefront.rest.b2b.capi.user.costcenter.resource.UserCostCenterListResource.getCostCenters() x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.storefront.rest.b2b.capi.user.costcenter.resource.UserCostCenterListResource /customers/{CustomerKey}/users/{CustomerItemUserKey}/costcenters/{UserCostCenterKey}: get: tags: - Cost Center summary: Returns business user cost center details description: This operation returns the details of a specified cost center of a business user. operationId: getUserCostCenter parameters: - name: CustomerKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.smb.capi.resource.customer.CustomerListResource - name: CustomerItemUserKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.smb.capi.resource.user.CustomerItemUserListResource - name: UserCostCenterKey in: path description: The cost center ID assigned by the customer required: true schema: type: string description: The cost center ID assigned by the customer example: "100401" example: "100401" x-item-key: com.intershop.application.storefront.rest.b2b.capi.user.costcenter.resource.UserCostCenterListResource responses: "200": description: OK - The cost center details. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/UserCostCenterRO' text/xml: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/UserCostCenterRO' "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. "404": description: "Not found - The customer or user could not be found, does\ \ not support cost centers or is not assigned to a cost center (as buyer\ \ or approver)." security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: public com.intershop.application.storefront.rest.b2b.capi.user.costcenter.resourceobject.UserCostCenterRO com.intershop.application.storefront.rest.b2b.capi.user.costcenter.resource.UserCostCenterItemResource.getUserCostCenter() x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.storefront.rest.b2b.capi.user.costcenter.resource.UserCostCenterItemResource components: schemas: LinkRO: title: Link type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of the returned element xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: "This is a constant: **Link**" readOnly: true example: Link xml: attribute: true attributes: type: array description: The list of attributes xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute' uri: type: string description: The URI relation: type: string description: The relation of the link externalDocs: description: Link Relations (www.iana.org) url: http://www.iana.org/assignments/link-relations/link-relations.xml enum: - about - alternate - appendix - archives - author - bookmark - canonical - chapter - collection - contents - copyright - create-form - current - describedby - describes - disclosure - duplicate - edit - edit-form - edit-media - enclosure - first - glossary - help - hosts - hub - icon - index - item - last - latest-version - license - lrdd - monitor - monitor-group - next - next-archive - nofollow - noreferrer - payment - predecessor-version - prefetch - prev - preview - previous - prev-archive - privacy-policy - profile - related - replies - search - section - self - service - start - stylesheet - subsection - successor-version - tag - terms-of-service - type - up - version-history - via - working-copy - working-copy-of title: type: string description: The title of the link description: type: string description: The description of the link itemId: type: string description: The ID of the linked item attribute: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute' description: A Link pointing to a resource xml: name: Link ResourceAttribute: title: Attribute type: object properties: name: type: string description: The attribute's name xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: "This is a constant: **ResourceAttribute**" example: ResourceAttribute xml: attribute: true value: type: object description: The attribute's value. description: An attribute xml: name: ResourceAttribute CostCenterUserRO: title: CostCenterUser type: object properties: approvedOrders: type: integer description: The approved orders of the cost center buyer format: int32 example: 8 budget: $ref: '#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1' budgetPeriod: type: string description: The budget period of the cost center buyer example: monthly buyerDetails: $ref: '#/components/schemas/LinkRO' email: type: string description: The e-mail address of the person represented by this user example: merkel@test.intershop.de firstName: type: string description: "The given name (also known as a personal name, first name,\ \ forename) of the person represented by this user" example: Peter lastName: type: string description: "The surname (also known as a family name, last name) of the\ \ person represented by this user" example: Merkel login: type: string description: The login of the person represented by this user example: merkel@test.intershop.de pendingOrders: type: integer description: The pending orders of the cost center buyer format: int32 example: 2 remainingBudget: $ref: '#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1' spentBudget: $ref: '#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1' title: type: string description: "The personal title, like Ms., Mr." example: Mr. description: This resource holds information about a cost center user. MoneyRO_v1: type: object properties: currency: type: string description: Three-letter currency code (ISO 4217) of the monetary value. example: USD value: type: number description: The monetary value. example: 10.99 description: Describes a money object. NewCostCenterRO: title: NewCostCenter type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of the cost center example: my cost center xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the element. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate elements by their type. ' example: NewCostCenter xml: attribute: true active: type: boolean budget: $ref: '#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1' budgetPeriod: type: string description: The budget period of the cost center example: monthly costCenterId: type: string description: The unique cost center ID assigned by the customer example: "007" costCenterOwner: $ref: '#/components/schemas/CostCenterUserRO' id: type: string description: The unique cost center ID assigned by the system example: q2QKAEsBiyQAAAFjXFBB6G14 description: This resource holds information on a new cost center. CostCenterRO: title: CostCenter type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of the cost center example: my cost center xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the element. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate elements by their type. ' example: CostCenter xml: attribute: true approvedOrders: type: integer description: The approved orders of the cost center format: int32 example: 2 active: type: boolean description: Indicates whether the cost center is active example: true budget: $ref: '#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1' budgetPeriod: type: string description: The budget period of the cost center example: monthly buyers: type: array description: The cost center buyers items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/CostCenterUserRO' costCenterId: type: string description: The unique cost center ID assigned by the customer example: "007" costCenterOwner: $ref: '#/components/schemas/CostCenterUserRO' id: type: string description: The unique cost center ID assigned by the system example: q2QKAEsBiyQAAAFjXFBB6G14 orders: type: array description: The orders of the cost center items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/OrderRO' pendingOrders: type: integer description: The amount of pending orders of the cost center format: int32 example: 2 remainingBudget: $ref: '#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1' spentBudget: $ref: '#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1' description: This resource holds information on a given cost center. OrderRO: title: Order type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the element. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate elements by their type. ' example: Order xml: attribute: true buyer: $ref: '#/components/schemas/LinkRO' items: type: number description: The order count example: 23 order: $ref: '#/components/schemas/LinkRO' orderDate: type: array description: The order date example: - "2020" - "5" - "27" items: type: integer format: int32 orderNo: type: string description: The order no example: "001" orderStatus: type: string description: The order status example: new orderTotalGross: $ref: '#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1' orderTotalNet: $ref: '#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1' description: This resource holds information on an order of a cost center. UpdateCostCenterRO: title: UpdateCostCenter type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of the cost center example: my cost center xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the element. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate elements by their type. ' example: UpdateCostCenter xml: attribute: true active: type: boolean description: Indicates whether the cost center is active example: true budget: $ref: '#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1' budgetPeriod: type: string description: The budget period of the cost center example: monthly costCenterId: type: string description: The cost center ID of the cost center example: "007" costCenterOwner: $ref: '#/components/schemas/CostCenterUserRO' id: type: string description: The ID of the cost center example: q2QKAEsBiyQAAAFjXFBB6G14 description: This rersource holds updated information on a cost center. NewCostCenterBuyerRO: title: NewCostCenterBuyer type: object properties: budget: $ref: '#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1' budgetPeriod: type: string description: The budget period of the cost center buyer example: monthly login: type: string description: The login of the buyer example: abc@login.de description: This resource holds information on a new cost center buyer. UpdateCostCenterBuyerRO: title: UpdateCostCenterBuyer type: object properties: budget: $ref: '#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1' budgetPeriod: type: string description: The budget period of the cost center buyer example: monthly description: This resource holds updated information on a cost center buyer. UserCostCenterLinkRO: title: UserCostCenterLink type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of the cost center example: Agro Net Central xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the element. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate elements by their type. ' example: UserCostCenterLink xml: attribute: true id: type: string description: The ID of the cost center example: "511288" roles: type: array description: The roles assigned to the user example: - Approver - Buyer items: type: string link: $ref: '#/components/schemas/LinkRO' description: This resource holds a list of all cost centers assigned to the user. xml: name: UserCostCenterLink UserCostCenterLinkROCollection: type: object properties: pageable: type: string description: The pageable ID total: type: integer description: The pageable amount total format: int32 offset: type: integer description: The pageable offset format: int32 amount: type: integer description: The pageable amount format: int32 elements: type: array description: The list of elements xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/UserCostCenterLinkRO' type: type: string description: 'The type of the element. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate elements by their type. ' example: UserCostCenterLinkROCollection xml: attribute: true sortKeys: uniqueItems: true type: array description: The keys to sort for xml: wrapped: true items: type: string description: The keys to sort for xml: name: sortKey name: type: string description: The name of an element xml: attribute: true xml: name: UserCostCenterLinkROCollection UserCostCenterRO: title: UserCostCenter type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of the cost center example: Agro Net Central xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the element. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate elements by their type. ' example: UserCostCenter xml: attribute: true id: type: string description: The ID of the cost center example: "511288" roles: type: array description: The roles assigned to the user example: - Approver - Buyer items: type: string description: This resource holds information about the assigned cost center. xml: name: UserCostCenter responses: "200": description: OK "201": description: Created "202": description: Accepted "204": description: No Content "205": description: Reset Content "206": description: Partial Content "301": description: Moved Permanently "302": description: Found "303": description: See Other "304": description: Not Modified "305": description: Use Proxy "307": description: Temporary Redirect "400": description: Bad Request "401": description: Unauthorized "402": description: Payment Required "403": description: Forbidden "404": description: Not Found "405": description: Method Not Allowed "406": description: Not Acceptable "407": description: Proxy Authentication Required "408": description: Request Timeout "409": description: Conflict "410": description: Gone "411": description: Length Required "412": description: Precondition Failed "413": description: Request Entity Too Large "414": description: Request-URI Too Long "415": description: Unsupported Media Type "416": description: Requested Range Not Satisfiable "417": description: Expectation Failed "428": description: Precondition Required "429": description: Too Many Requests "431": description: Request Header Fields Too Large "500": description: Internal Server Error "501": description: Not Implemented "502": description: Bad Gateway "503": description: Service Unavailable "504": description: Gateway Timeout "505": description: HTTP Version Not Supported "511": description: Network Authentication Required parameters: loc: name: loc in: path description: "The locale ID (submitted as optional matrix parameter ```;loc=```).\ \ If omitted, the priority is as follows (from high to low): Locale ID parameter,\ \ user's default locale, site's default locale. The available locales depend\ \ on your individual Intershop Commerce Management installation. Use IANA\ \ language definitions for languages and regions and combine them using a\ \ underscore, e. g. ```en_US```." required: false style: matrix schema: type: string description: "The locale ID (submitted as optional matrix parameter ```;loc=```).\ \ If omitted, the priority is as follows (from high to low): Locale ID parameter,\ \ user's default locale, site's default locale. The available locales depend\ \ on your individual Intershop Commerce Management installation. Use IANA\ \ language definitions for languages and regions and combine them using\ \ a underscore, e. g. ```en_US```." default: en_US examples: en_US: description: English (United States) value: en_US fr_FR: description: French (France) value: fr_FR de_DE: description: German (Germany) value: de_DE x-matrixParamPath: / cur: name: cur in: path description: "The currency code (submitted as optional matrix parameter ```;cur=```).\ \ If omitted, the site's or user's default currency is used." required: false style: matrix schema: type: string description: "The currency code (submitted as optional matrix parameter ```;cur=```).\ \ If omitted, the site's or user's default currency is used." default: USD examples: FJD: description: Fiji Dollar value: FJD STD: description: São Tomé / Príncipe Dobra value: STD MXN: description: Mexican Peso value: MXN SCR: description: Seychelles Rupee value: SCR LVL: description: Latvian Lats value: LVL CDF: description: Congolese Franc value: CDF GTQ: description: Guatemalan Quetzal value: GTQ BBD: description: Barbados Dollar value: BBD CLP: description: Chilean Peso value: CLP UGX: description: Ugandan Shilling value: UGX HNL: description: Honduran Lempira value: HNL ZAR: description: South African Rand value: ZAR TND: description: Tunisian Dinar value: TND SLL: description: Sierra Leonean Leone value: SLL BSD: description: Bahamian Dollar value: BSD SDG: description: Sudanese Pound value: SDG IQD: description: Iraqi Dinar value: IQD GMD: description: Gambian Dalasi value: GMD CUP: description: Cuban Peso value: CUP TWD: description: New Taiwan Dollar value: TWD RSD: description: Serbian Dinar value: RSD ZRZ: description: Zaire value: ZRZ DOP: description: Dominican Peso value: DOP KMF: description: Comoro Franc value: KMF MYR: description: Malaysian Ringgit value: MYR FKP: description: Falkland Islands Pound value: FKP XOF: description: CFA Franc BCEAO value: XOF GEL: description: Lari value: GEL UYU: description: Uruguayan Peso value: UYU MAD: description: Moroccan Dirham value: MAD CVE: description: Cape Verde Escudo value: CVE TOP: description: Tongan Pa'anga value: TOP PGK: description: Papua New Guinean Kina value: PGK OMR: description: Omani Rial value: OMR AZN: description: Azerbaijanian Manat value: AZN SEK: description: Swedish Krona value: SEK KES: description: Kenyan Shilling value: KES UAH: description: Ukrainian Hryvnia value: UAH BTN: description: Ngultrum value: BTN GNF: description: Guinea Franc value: GNF MZN: description: Mozambican Metical value: MZN ERN: description: Nakfa value: ERN SVC: description: Salvadoran Colón value: SVC ARS: description: Argentine Peso value: ARS QAR: description: Qatari Riyal value: QAR NLG: description: Dutch Guilder value: NLG IRR: description: Iranian Rial value: IRR MRO: description: Mauritanian Ouguiya value: MRO XPF: description: CFP Franc value: XPF UZS: description: Uzbekistani Som value: UZS THB: description: Thai Baht value: THB CNY: description: Yuan Renminbi value: CNY BDT: description: Bangladeshi Taka value: BDT LYD: description: Libyan Dinar value: LYD BMD: description: Bermudian Dollar value: BMD PHP: description: Philippine Peso value: PHP KWD: description: Kuwaiti Dinar value: KWD RUB: description: Russian Ruble value: RUB PYG: description: Paraguayan Guarani value: PYG JMD: description: Jamaican Dollar value: JMD ISK: description: Iceland Krona value: ISK GWP: description: Guinea Peso value: GWP BEF: description: Belgian Franc value: BEF ESP: description: Spanish Peseta value: ESP COP: description: Colombian Peso value: COP USD: description: US Dollar value: USD MKD: description: Denar value: MKD DZD: description: Algerian Dinar value: DZD PAB: description: Panamanian Balboa value: PAB SGD: description: Singapore Dollar value: SGD ETB: description: Ethiopian Birr value: ETB VUV: description: Vanuatu Vatu value: VUV VEF: description: Venezuelan Bolivar Fuerte value: VEF SOS: description: Somali Shilling value: SOS KGS: description: Som value: KGS LAK: description: Lao Kip value: LAK ZMK: description: Zambian Kwacha value: ZMK BND: description: Brunei Dollar value: BND XAF: description: CFA Franc BEAC value: XAF LRD: description: Liberian Dollar value: LRD ITL: description: Italian Lira value: ITL HRK: description: Croatian Kuna value: HRK CHF: description: Swiss Franc value: CHF ATS: description: Austrian Schilling value: ATS DJF: description: Djibouti Franc value: DJF ALL: description: Albanian Lek value: ALL MTL: description: Maltese Lira value: MTL TZS: description: Tanzanian Shilling value: TZS VND: description: Vietnamese Dong value: VND AUD: description: Australian Dollar value: AUD ILS: description: New Israeli Sheqel value: ILS KPW: description: North Korean Won value: KPW GYD: description: Guyanese Dollar value: GYD GHS: description: Ghanaian Cedi value: GHS MDL: description: Moldovan Leu value: MDL KHR: description: Cambodian Riel value: KHR BOB: description: Boliviano value: BOB IDR: description: Indonesian Rupiah value: IDR KYD: description: Cayman Islands Dollar value: KYD AMD: description: Armenian Dram value: AMD TRY: description: Turkish Lira value: TRY SHP: description: Saint Helena Pound value: SHP BWP: description: Botswana Pula value: BWP LBP: description: Lebanese Pound value: LBP CYP: description: Cyprus Pound value: CYP TJS: description: Tajikistani Somoni value: TJS JOD: description: Jordanian Dinar value: JOD RWF: description: Rwanda Franc value: RWF HKD: description: Hong Kong Dollar value: HKD AED: description: United Arab Emirates Dirham value: AED EUR: description: Euro value: EUR LSL: description: Lesotho Loti value: LSL DKK: description: Danish Krone value: DKK CAD: description: Canadian Dollar value: CAD BGN: description: Bulgarian Lev value: BGN MMK: description: Kyat value: MMK EEK: description: Estonian Kroon value: EEK SYP: description: Syrian Pound value: SYP NOK: description: Norwegian Krone value: NOK MUR: description: Mauritian Rupee value: MUR ZWL: description: Zimbabwean Dollar value: ZWL GIP: description: Gibraltar Pound value: GIP RON: description: Romanian New Leu value: RON LKR: description: Sri Lankan Rupee value: LKR NGN: description: Nigerian Naira value: NGN IEP: description: Irish Pound value: IEP CZK: description: Czech Koruna value: CZK CRC: description: Costa Rican Colon value: CRC PKR: description: Pakistani Rupee value: PKR XCD: description: East Carribean Dollar value: XCD GRD: description: Greek Drachma value: GRD HTG: description: Haitian Gourde value: HTG ANG: description: Netherlands Antillian Guilder value: ANG SIT: description: Slovenian Tolar value: SIT BHD: description: Bahraini Dinar value: BHD PTE: description: Portuguese Escudo value: PTE BPP: description: Bonus Point Price value: BPP SZL: description: Swazi Lilangeni value: SZL SRD: description: Surinam Dollar value: SRD KZT: description: Kazakhstani Tenge value: KZT TTD: description: Trinidad and Tobago Dollar value: TTD SAR: description: Saudi Riyal value: SAR LTL: description: Lithuanian Litas value: LTL YER: description: Yemeni Rial value: YER MVR: description: Maldivian Rufiyaa value: MVR BPV: description: Bonus Point Value value: BPV AFN: description: Afghani value: AFN INR: description: Indian Rupee value: INR NPR: description: Nepalese Rupee value: NPR KRW: description: South Korean Won value: KRW AWG: description: Aruban Florin value: AWG MNT: description: Mongolian Tugrik value: MNT JPY: description: Japanese Yen value: JPY PLN: description: Polish Złoty value: PLN AOA: description: Angolan Kwanza value: AOA SBD: description: Solomon Islands Dollar value: SBD GBP: description: Pound Sterling value: GBP HUF: description: Hungarian Forint value: HUF BYR: description: Belarussian Ruble value: BYR LUF: description: Luxembourgian Franc value: LUF BIF: description: Burundi Franc value: BIF MWK: description: Malawian Kwacha value: MWK MGA: description: Malagasy Ariary value: MGA FIM: description: Finnish Mark value: FIM DEM: description: Deutsche Mark value: DEM BZD: description: Belize Dollar value: BZD BAM: description: Convertible Marks value: BAM MOP: description: Macanese Pataca value: MOP EGP: description: Egyptian Pound value: EGP NAD: description: Namibian Dollar value: NAD SKK: description: Slovakian Krona value: SKK NIO: description: Cordoba Oro value: NIO PEN: description: Peruvian Nuevo Sol value: PEN WST: description: Samoan Tala value: WST NZD: description: New Zealand Dollar value: NZD TMT: description: Turkmenistani Manat value: TMT FRF: description: French Franc value: FRF BRL: description: Brazilian Real value: BRL x-matrixParamPath: / regionals: name: regionals in: path required: false style: matrix schema: type: object properties: loc: type: string description: The locale ID example: en_US cur: type: string description: The currency code example: EUR x-matrixParamPath: / pgid: name: pgid in: path description: "The personalization group identifier, submitted as matrix parameter\ \ ```;pgid=```. Required if you want to work with customer-specific\ \ content." required: false style: matrix schema: type: string description: "The personalization group identifier, submitted as matrix parameter\ \ ```;pgid=```. Required if you want to work with customer-specific\ \ content." example: FUOGrzQ_VjORpGaN8DRGmLLE0000 example: FUOGrzQ_VjORpGaN8DRGmLLE0000 spgid: name: spgid in: path description: "The secure personalization group identifier, submitted as matrix\ \ parameter ```;spgid=```. Required if you want to work with customer-specific\ \ content." required: false style: matrix schema: type: string description: "The secure personalization group identifier, submitted as matrix\ \ parameter ```;spgid=```. Required if you want to work with customer-specific\ \ content." example: FUOGrzQ_VjORpGaN8DRGmLLE0000 example: FUOGrzQ_VjORpGaN8DRGmLLE0000 securitySchemes: basicAuth: type: http description: "Basic access authentication. In basic authentication, a request\ \ contains a header field in the form of authorization: ```Basic ```,\ \ where credentials is the Base64 encoding of ID and password joined by a\ \ single colon :." scheme: basic authToken: type: apiKey description: User authentication token to authenticate the request. The token is a string generated by the ICM server in the same header in every response of an REST endpoint. name: authentication-token in: header bearerAuth: type: http description: "Bearer token authentication. A request contains a header field\ \ in the form of authorization: ```Bearer ```, where is a string\ \ generated by an authentication service in response to a login request." scheme: bearer bearerFormat: JWT x-apiID: costcenter x-origin-class: "com.intershop.component.rest.capi.resource.RootResource,com.intershop.application.storefront.rest.b2b.capi.user.costcenter.resource.UserCostCenterListResource,com.intershop.application.storefront.rest.b2b.capi.user.costcenter.resource.UserCostCenterListResource"

[Open ReDoc-rendered Open API documentation in separate window.](https://knowledge.intershop.com/rdd/Redoc-29999M.html)

## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.