---
id: '7a29848606fc742703192c52daa89821'
title: 'Publishing Price Lists'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/V32302'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:38.785074+00:00'
---
# Publishing Price Lists

- Publishing the (empty) price list, and
- Publishing individual prices of this price list.

To publish a price list to a target system:

-
Select the intended channel from the context selection box, then select Catalogs | Price Lists.
This displays the standard price list, the cost price list as well as a list of special price lists created for channel products.
-
Select the intended price list.
Select the checkbox of the price list that you intend to publish to the target system.
-
Click Publish to Live System.
This displays the list of configured target systems.
-
Select the intended target system and click Finish.
The price list is replicated to the selected target system.Note:Publishing a price list to a target system does not yet include the specific prices defined in the editing system.
To publish individual prices of a price list to a target system:

-
Select the intended channel from the context selection box, then select Catalogs | Price Lists.
This displays the standard price list, the cost price list as well as a list of special price lists created for channel products.
-
Click the name of the intended price list.
This opens the price list detail view.
-
Change to the Prices tab.
This displays all special prices defined in the current price list.
-
Select the intended prices.
Select the checkbox(es) of the individual prices that you intend to publish to the target system.
-
Click Publish to Live System.
This displays the list of configured target systems.
-
Select the intended target system and click Finish.
The selected prices are replicated to the corresponding price list in the selected target system.Note:Make sure that the price list has been published to the target system before publishing individual prices.