---
id: '7aa2ffa5783dd7eff3ff5faf2b542401'
title: 'Managing Content Upload Directories'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3G2480'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:53.083378+00:00'
---
# Managing Content Upload Directories

Managing content upload directories involves creating, renaming, and deleting directories.

## Creating a New Content Upload Directory

-
Select the intended management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Content Upload.
This displays the content upload directory structure of the selected context and the files contained in each directory.
-
In the
*Select language*field, choose the locale where you want to create a new directory and click Apply. - Select the parent directory.
-
In the
*New Directory*field, enter the name of the new directory. -
Click Add.
The new directory appears in the selected parent directory.

## Renaming a Content Upload Directory

-
Select the intended management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Content Upload.
This displays the content upload directory structure of the selected context and the files contained in each directory.
-
In the
*Select language*field, choose the locale where you want to rename a directory and click Apply. - Click the directory you want to rename.
-
Click Rename.
The name of the selected directory is displayed in a text edit box.
- Edit the name of the directory.
- Click OK to confirm or Cancel to discard the changes.

Note:

The Content Upload base directory cannot be renamed.

## Deleting a Content Upload Directory

-
Select the intended management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Content Upload.
This displays the content upload directory structure of the selected context and the files contained in each directory.
-
In the
*Select language*field, choose the locale where you want to delete a directory and click Apply. - Select the directory you want to delete.
-
Click Delete and confirm the deletion.
The directory and its contents have been deleted.

Note:

The Content Upload base directory cannot be deleted.