---
id: '7ae55441b2b0e513558b31c124bd1764'
title: 'Overview'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/27914Q'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:38:16.528903+00:00'
---
The present page serves as an overview for the topic. All available documents for the topic can be found here.

The present document replaces the document *Overview - Gradle-Based Build and Deployment* (KB-ID L25628)

In software engineering, continuous integration is the practice of frequently merging and testing individual changes to [code artifact](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ISGLOS/pages/2214730413/development+artifact)s with a shared code base.

[Intershop 7](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ISGLOS/pages/2162594838/Intershop+7) (as of version 7.4 CI) and [Intershop Commerce Management](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ISGLOS/pages/2217982072/Intershop+Commerce+Management) are bundled with [Gradle](http://www.gradle.org)-based tools that are used to build, assemble, upgrade, downgrade, deploy and undeploy [system component](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ISGLOS/pages/2213813242/system+component)s. These tools are designed to implement flexible continuous delivery processes.

The goals of the continuous delivery process include:

The process of converting ("compiling") source code into executable software.

In the [Intershop 7](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ISGLOS/pages/2162594838/Intershop+7) context, several build process types were employed (up to Intershop 7.4):

Beginning with the [continuous integration](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ISGLOS/pages/2214727367/continuous+integration) support for [Intershop 7](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ISGLOS/pages/2162594838/Intershop+7) and [Intershop Commerce Management](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ISGLOS/pages/2217982072/Intershop+Commerce+Management), Intershop replaces this approach with

Depending on the context, "assembly" may be

Depending on the project-specific configuration, an assembly can produce

Deployment is all of the activities that make a software system available for use. The deployment process consists of several interrelated activities with possible transitions between them. These activities can occur at the producer side or at the [customer](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ISGLOS/pages/2153810357/customer) side or both. Because every software system is unique, the precise processes or procedures within each activity can hardly be defined. Therefore, "deployment" should be interpreted as a general process that has to be customized according to specific requirements or characteristics.

Intershop includes the following activities into the deployment:

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_deployment](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_deployment)

Note

The property *valid from* indicates the first version for which this document is valid.

The property *valid to* indicates the last version for which this document is valid.

The version numbers 7.x are related to the products *Intershop 7* or *Intershop Commerce Suite*.

All other version numbers are related to the product *Intershop Gradle Tools*.

Please note that the Intershop Customer Knowledge Base provides *product-related filter criteria*.

The present section provides a more detailed view about the available documents then the generic report above.

| Document | Description |
|---|---|
|

Previous versions of this cookbook can be found here:

If a *build engineer* or *system administrator* wants to start with the preparation of an environment with all necessary servers and source artifacts, he should start with this document. This documents prepares also some necessary artifacts for an simple setup of a demo environment.

Intershop 7 (since IS 7.4 CI) is delivered with tools that can be used to build, assemble, upgrade, downgrade, deploy and undeploy software components.

The present document is intended as a quick start guide for consultants and developers for a quick project setup.

Note

The activities described in this document are intended to give a rough overview of the setup steps. The document helps to get a first impression about the functionalities of the Intershop platform and the "look and feel" when developing applications.

Be aware that this quick guide does **neither** describe the quickest solution for many developers, **nor** do the approaches mentioned here meet the requirements of a full-scale project setup.

To set up a development environment, please follow the [Cookbook - Setup of CI Infrastructure (valid to Gradle Tools 2.7)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1812641226/Cookbook+-+Setup+of+CI+Infrastructure+valid+to+Gradle+Tools+2.7) instead, which focuses on creating a reusable infrastructure for multiple developers.

For more detailed information to a complete CI Infrastructure, please refer to [Cookbook - Setup of CI Infrastructure (valid to Gradle Tools 2.7)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1812641226/Cookbook+-+Setup+of+CI+Infrastructure+valid+to+Gradle+Tools+2.7).

For more detailed information about deploying Intershop 7 instances, please refer to [Cookbook - Gradle Deployment Tools (7.4 CI - ICM 7.7)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1783302208/Cookbook+-+Gradle+Deployment+Tools+7.4+CI+-+ICM+7.7).

The procedures described in the present guide are based on *Intershop 7.6* in combination with *Intershop Gradle Tools 2.7*.

Previous versions of this cookbook can be found here:

If a *developer* wants to start with development of components (cartridges), he find the first information in this document.

A previous version of this cookbook can be found here:

[Cookbook - Gradle Developer Workflow (valid to Gradle Tools 2.7)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1789069382/Cookbook+-+Gradle+Developer+Workflow+valid+to+Gradle+Tools+2.7)

| Document | Description |
|---|---|
|

Developers and build engineers can find the most important information for the configuration of the component build in this document:

This cookbook contains recipes for some special cartridge build configurations and some special tasks.

| Document | Description |
|---|---|
|

If a *developer* wants to start with development of an assembly, he should read this document first.

This cookbook contains recipes for the implementation of an assembly.

A previous version of this cookbook can be found here:

This document describes the Gradle DSL extension of the Intershop assembly plugins.

| Document | Description |
|---|---|
|

This cookbook contains recipes for the implementation of a deployment.

Previous versions of this cookbook can be found here:

This document describes the Gradle DSL extension of the Intershop deployment plugins.


| Document | Description |
|---|---|
|

This guide helps to set up an Oracle XE for Intershop. This database can be used for development or presentation cases.

This guide is addressed to system administrators/DBAs who have to set up an Oracle database instance for Intershop 7. It does not describe the steps to do in detail, but summarizes the general requirements and common settings that an Intershop 7 cluster expects as preconditions to function properly.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.