---
id: '7b14c945e0f1b923976ba3b899524129'
title: 'Concept - Intershop PWA'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/30851D'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:30:18.718790+00:00'
---
In a complex application like the Intershop Progressive Web App, there are multiple ways and kinds of configuration.

The complexity increases if you consider that the communication with Intershop Commerce Management has to be coordinated as well.

In addition, the PWA, when run with Angular SSR, consists of a server-side and a client-side application.

Warning

If available, always prefer configuration via system environment variables and running the PWA with server-side rendering.

The standard way of configuring an Angular Application is managing multiple environment files that are part of the project's source tree, usually located in *src/environments*.

To choose one configuration, you have to supply the parameter when building the Angular Application.

See [Guide - Building and Running Server-Side Rendering](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/g/intershop/intershop-pwa/blob/develop/docs/guides/ssr-startup.md) and [Configuring Application Environments](https://angular.io/guide/build#configure-environment-specific-defaults) for further information.

Do not access properties supplied with environment files directly in artifacts.

Instead, provide them via `InjectionTokens`

to be used in components, pipes, or services.

Standard `InjectionTokens`

are defined in [ injection-keys.ts](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/develop/src/app/core/configurations/injection-keys.ts).

First, extend the [ environment.model](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/develop/src/environments/environment.model.ts) to support your new property.

`InjectionToken`

that can be used to access a certain property later on:`export const PROPERTY = createEnvironmentInjectionToken('property');`

The new token is automatically initialized with the default value from the Angular CLI environment files.

To override it in tests, you can provide it in the `TestBed`

configuration.

To inject the property with dependency injection, use the helper [ InjectSingle](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/develop/src/app/core/utils/injection.ts) to properly inherit type information:

```
import { Inject } from '@angular/core'
import { PROPERTY } from 'ish-core/configurations/injection-keys'
import { InjectSingle } from 'ish-core/utils/injection';
...
constructor(@Inject(PROPERTY) private property: InjectSingle<typeof PROPERTY>)
```

As can be seen here, only build-time and deploy-time configuration parameters can be supplied this way.

When running the application in Angular SSR mode within a *Node.js* environment, you can additionally access the process environment variables via *process.env*.

This method provides a way to configure the application at deploy time, e.g., when using Docker images.

Configuration can then be consumed and passed to the client side via state transfer using Angular's [TransferState](https://angular.io/api/core/TransferState).

To introduce a new `TransferState`

key, add it to the [ state-keys.ts](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/develop/src/app/core/configurations/state-keys.ts).

`export const NEW_KEY = makeStateKey<string>('newKey');`

The actual transfer is handled by the [ app.server.module.ts](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/develop/src/app/app.server.module.ts) where the mapping of the environment variable is done.

Accessing the transferred state in a service or a component is done as follows:

```
import { NEW_KEY } from 'ish-core/configurations/state-keys';
newKey string;
constructor(private transferState: TransferState) {}
if (!SSR) {
this.newKey = this.transferState.get<string>(NEW_KEY, 'default value');
}
```

The previous ways were mainly handling deployment- or build-time-related means to configure an Angular application.

All further configuration that has some kind of runtime flexibility, especially configuration that is retrieved via REST calls from the ICM, has to be handled in the NgRx store and to be used throughout the application with selectors.

Effects and actions should be used to manipulate those settings.

A configuration effect (NgRx) for listening to route parameters when initially visiting the page has been composed.

This provides the most flexible way of configuring the application at runtime.

One example for a build-time configuration is the property `serviceWorker`

, which is managed in the *angular.json* configurations and used to activate the [service worker](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/g/intershop/intershop-pwa/blob/develop/docs/concepts/progressive-web-app.md#service-worker).

In general, properties available at build time can only be supplied by Angular CLI environments (see above).

Deployment settings do not influence the build process and, therefore, can be set in more flexible manners.

The main criteria of this category is the fact that deployment settings do not change during runtime.

The most common way of supplying them can be implemented by using Angular CLI environment files and `InjectionTokens`

for distribution throughout the application's code.

An example for this kind of settings are breakpoint settings for the different device classes of the application touch points.

Deployment settings can also be set by using `TransferState`

to use environment variables of the deployment for the configuration of the application.

The most flexible kind of settings, which can also change when the application runs, are runtime settings.

Angular CLI environment files cannot provide a way to handle those.

Only the NgRx store can do that.

Thus, only NgRx means should be used to supply them.

Nevertheless, default values can be provided by environment files and can later be overridden by system environment variables.

Everything managed in the NgRx state is accumulated on the server side and sent to the client side with the initial HTML response.

To access these properties, use the [ StatePropertiesService](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/develop/src/app/core/utils/state-transfer/state-properties.service.ts), which takes care of retrieving the configuration either from the configuration state, an environment variable, or the

ICM provides a Configurations REST resource - `/configurations`

- that is supposed to provide all relevant runtime configurations that can be defined in the ICM back office and are required to configure a REST client as well.

This includes service configurations, locales, basket preferences, etc.

The ICM configurations information can be accessed through the [ getServerConfigParameter](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/develop/src/app/core/store/core/server-config/server-config.selectors.ts) selector.

At first, the PWA has to be connected with the corresponding ICM.

This can be done by modifying environment files or by setting the environment variable `ICM_BASE_URL`

for the process running the *Node.js* server.

The latter is the preferred way.

See also [Guide - Building and Running Server-Side Rendering](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/g/intershop/intershop-pwa/blob/develop/docs/guides/ssr-startup.md).

Independent of where and how you deploy the Angular SSR application, be it in a Docker container or plain, running on Azure, with or without service orchestrator, setting the base URL provides the most flexible way of configuring the PWA.

Refer to the documentation for mechanisms of your environment on how to set and pass environment variables.

Use the properties `icmChannel`

and `icmApplication`

in the Angular CLI environment or the environment variables `ICM_CHANNEL`

and `ICM_APPLICATION`

to statically direct one deployment to a specific REST endpoint of the ICM.

To activate additional functionality, the concept of feature toggles is used throughout the application.

For instance, there is no general distinction between B2B and B2C applications.

Each setup can define specific features at any time.

Of course, the ICM server must supply appropriate REST resources to leverage functionality.

| Feature Toggle | Description of Enabled Feature |
|---|---|
| compare | Product compare feature (additional configuration via `dataRetention` configuration options) |
| contactUs | Allow the user to contact the website provider via a contact web form |
| extraConfiguration | Fetch extra configuration information from Configuration CMS component for
|
| productNotifications | Product notifications feature for price and in stock notifications |
| rating | Display product ratings |
| recently | Display recently viewed products (additional configuration via `dataRetention` configuration options) |
| saveLanguageSelection | Save the user's language selection and restore it after PWA load |
| stickyHeader | Display sticky header |
| storeLocator | Display physical stores and their addresses |
B2B Features |
|
| businessCustomerRegistration | Create business customers on registration |
| costCenters | Cost center feature |
| orderTemplates | Order template feature |
| punchout | Punchout feature |
| quickorder | Quick order page and direct add to cart input |
| quoting | Quoting feature |
B2C Features |
|
| guestCheckout | Allow unregistered guest checkout |
| wishlists | Wishlist product list feature |
Third-party Integrations |
|
| copilot | Intershop Copilot integration for embedded chatbot (requires an additional `copilot` configuration) |
| maps | Google Maps integration for locating stores (used with the `storeLocator` feature, additional configuration via `gmaKey` ) |
| tracking | Google Tag Manager tracking (additional configuration via `gtmToken` ) |
ICM compatibility |
|
| legacyEncoding | Use URL resource encoding for ICM 7.10 and ICM 11 |

The configuration of features can be done statically by the Angular CLI environment property `features`

(string array) or the environment parameter `FEATURES`

(comma-separated string list).

To configure it dynamically, use the PWA URL parameter `features`

(comma-separated string list) during URL rewriting in the reverse proxy (see [Concept - Multi-Site Handling](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/g/intershop/intershop-pwa/blob/develop/docs/concepts/multi-site-handling.md)).

Various means to activate and deactivate functionality based on feature toggles are supplied.

**Guard**

Add the Guard as `canActivate`

to the routing definition.

Additionally, you have to supply a `data`

field called `feature`

, containing a string that determines for which feature the route should be active.

If the feature is deactivated, the user is sent to the error page on accessing.

```
const routes: Routes = [
{
path: 'quote',
loadChildren: ...,
canActivate: [featureToggleGuard],
data: { feature: 'quoting' },
},
...
```

**Directive**

`<ish-product-add-to-compare *ishFeature="'compare'"> ...</ish-product-add-to-compare>`

**Pipe**

```
@if ('compare' | ishFeature) {
<ish-product-add-to-compare> ...</ish-product-add-to-compare>
}
```

**Service**

```
@Injectable({ providedIn: 'root' })
export class SomeService {
constructor(private featureToggleService: FeatureToggleService) {}
...
if (this.featureToggleService.enabled('quoting')) {
...
}
```

With Version 0.21, [ FeatureToggleModule.forTesting](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/develop/src/app/core/feature-toggle.module.ts) was introduced, which provides a shallow implementation for testing with feature toggles not depending on the state management.

`imports`

of the `TestBed`

declaration of the unit test.`FeatureToggleModule.switchTestingFeatures`

The default locale is set by providing `LOCALE_ID`

in the [ InternationalizationModule](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/develop/src/app/core/internationalization.module.ts) using BCP 47 format, e.g.,

`'de-DE'`

:`{ provide: LOCALE_ID, useValue: 'de-DE' },`

At runtime, the `SSR_LOCALE`

transfer state key can override the default locale when running with server-side rendering.

To set the default locale dynamically, use the URL parameter `lang`

when rewriting the URL in the reverse proxy (see [Concept - Multi-Site Handling](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/g/intershop/intershop-pwa/blob/develop/docs/concepts/multi-site-handling.md)).

The `fallbackLocales`

property in the Angular CLI environment files defines the available translations when there is no connection to the server.

These locales correspond to the local translation files shipped with the application (e.g., `src/assets/i18n/en_US.json`

) and ensure the translation functionality works even if the ICM REST API is unavailable.

To add other languages except English, German, or French:

Add the locale to the ICM channel configuration.

Create a new json mapping file with all translations, e.g., `src/assets/i18n/nl_NL.json`

.

(optional) Add the new language switch translation keys to other locales:

*example de_DE.json*:

```
"locale.nl_NL.long": "Niederländisch",
"locale.nl_NL.short": "nl",
```


(optional) Add the locale-specific currency filter to the environments under `src/environments`

, e.g.,

```
localeCurrencyOverride: {
...
nl_NL: 'EUR',
},
```

Import the Angular locale data in the [ InternationalizationModule](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/develop/src/app/core/internationalization.module.ts):

`import localeNl from '@angular/common/locales/nl';`

Register the locale using `registerLocaleData`

in the constructor:

`registerLocaleData(localeNl);`

Add new json mapping file import to `LOCAL_TRANSLATIONS`

injection token in the [ InternationalizationModule](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/develop/src/app/core/internationalization.module.ts) provider:

```
providers: [
{
provide: LOCAL_TRANSLATIONS,
useValue: {
useFactory: (lang: string) => {
switch (lang) {
// other added json-mapping-file imports with translations
...
case: nl_NL {
return import('../../assets/i18n/nl_NL.json');
}
}
},
},
}
]
```

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.