---
id: '7b683698c637d01dc6c232a20f6453d1'
title: 'ISML Tag'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2474C0'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:14.706362+00:00'
---
The `<ISFILE>`

tag is only allowed as a child element of `<ISFILEBUNDLE>`

. See also [ <ISFILEBUNDLE> ](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1775688626/ISML+Tag+-+ISFILEBUNDLE)and

`<ISRENDER>`

The `<ISFILEBUNDLE>`

tag allows you to bundle multiple smaller source files into one big file and to configure processors for the bundled files. `<ISFILEBUNDLE>`

has the two supporting tags `<ISFILE>`

and `<ISRENDER>`

.

Each file bundle must have one `<ISRENDER>`

tag. `<ISRENDER>`

provides a render method for all resulting files of this file bundle. The attribute `File:Name`

is the name of the bundle or the name of one of the configured files.

A file bundle must have one or more `<ISFILE>`

tags. `<ISFILE>`

is used to declare files to be processed via its name attribute.

<isfile name="/css/CSS_File1.css" processors="none"/> <isfile name="/css/CSS_File2.css"/> <isfile name="/css/CSS_File3.css" processors="CSSCompressor"/>

See [ <ISFILEBUNDLE> ](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1775688626/ISML+Tag+-+ISFILEBUNDLE)and

`<ISRENDER>`

`<ISFILE>`

declares the relative file path and is only allowed inside `<ISFILEBUNDLE>`

.

`name`

This attribute is required.

`name = relative source path`


Specifies the relative path to the source file.

`processors`

This attribute is optional.

`processors = comma separated processor list`


Overrides the `processors`

attribute specified in the `<ISFILEBUNDLE>`

tag. Specify this attribute to define a file specific processor list.

Omitting this attribute leads to use of the default processor list defined in [ <ISFILEBUNDLE> ](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1775688626/ISML+Tag+-+ISFILEBUNDLE)(for an available list of processors, see section

`processors`

to `none`

to skip processing this file.The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.