---
id: '7c8a34c5b38db2c131525ace92a84a61'
title: 'Synchronizing All Products Manually'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/B32761'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:34.126354+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/B32761

# Synchronizing All Products Manually

This option is used in case product mapping rules have changed. To synchronize all products in a repository, regardless of changes:
-
Select the intended channel from the context selection box, then select Mass Data Tasks | Product Syndication.
This displays the Syndication & Synchronization overview page.

-
Select Synchronization.
This displays a list of all source repositories from which products in the current repository have been derived. The view shows for each repository how many products have changed.

-
Select the source repositories from which you intend to synchronize changes.
-
Click Synchronize All, then OK to confirm.
This brings you to the Batch Processes page on which you can monitor progress with the task.


## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.