---
id: '7f437e218814619d2c70464aeb27c0d7'
title: 'Getting Started'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/41R240'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:30:35.226776+00:00'
---
# Getting Started

The Content Management Center is an app of the Intershop Administration Portal and is focused on managing the content of your online shop.

Its only module, the Design View, provides a graphical interface for directly managing and editing your online shop’s content. You can instantly preview changes as you make them. The Design View allows you to move components, replace images, update data, assign components to specific customers, control their visibility, and perform other content editing tasks.

This user manual is divided into the following chapters:[Getting Started](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iap/master/cmc_en/cmc/getting_started/task_cmc_getting_started.html#administration_center)This section provides general information about the Content Management Center. Moreover, it covers the topics of accessing and navigating an online shop in the Design View.

[Content Editing](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iap/master/cmc_en/cmc/content_editing/topic_content_editing.html#task_editing_content)This section covers content editing in the Design View by providing step-by-step instructions and practical use cases.

[Component Sharing](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iap/master/cmc_en/cmc/component_sharing/topic_component_sharing.html#topic_component_sharing)This section describes how to customize shared content and revert local changes.

[Glossary](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iap/master/cmc_en/cmc/references/ref_cmc_glossary.html)This section provides a glossary explaining terms used throughout the application and its modules.


## Accessing Your Online Shop

-
Select a Shop.
Start by choosing the online shop you want to edit from the available list.

-
Connect to Intershop Commerce Management using your ICM credentials.
This ensures that only authorized users can edit the content.

Once logged in, you will see your shop in the Design View, including:-
The name of the selected shop


-
The current time for which the content is being edited


-
The language for which the content is being edited


-

## Navigation

The Intershop Content Management Center user interface is divided into four major areas: the header, the second header, the main content area, and the footer.

-
*Header*The header section provides several key functionalities:

-
*Second header*The second header provides details about the selected Progressive Web App, including its name, the time at which the visible content was loaded, and the current language of the maintained content.

-
*Main content area*The interface is divided into three main sections to support efficient content management and editing.

*Footer*The footer displays version information of the app and the name of the tenant through which you are currently logged in.