---
id: '7f569dfb0e72b7806d75f20ddf2e521e'
title: 'Managing Payment Methods'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/Y33654'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:01.474712+00:00'
---
# Managing Payment Methods

-
Cash on Delivery

-
Direct Debit Transfer

-
Invoice

-
Cash in Advance

-
Gift Card


In addition, Intershop Commerce Management features "helper" payment methods, which can serve as a "blueprint" for implementing new payment methods.

The demo payment methods shipped with Intershop Commerce Management include:

-
ISH Credit Card

A demo method intended to be used as a template for implementing new payment methods. It simulates a payment service with credit card-specific methods. With regard to order management, it illustrates the generally available payment processes.

-
ISH Online Pay

A demo method intended to be used as a template for implementing new payment methods. It simulates a payment service that aggregates the payment information of the customer to trigger a bank transfer from the customer's bank account to the shop's bank account.

-
ISH Fast Pay

A demo method intended to be used as a template for implementing new payment methods. It simulates an "express"-type payment service that redirects the customer to an external payment service for authentication and checkout completion.


Dedicated payment provider cartridges add new payment methods to the Intershop Commerce Management system. Using Intershop Organization Management, the system administrator makes the new payment methods available to the sales organizations, which, in turn, propagate them to their channels.

To manage payment method associations for sales organizations:

-
In the navigation bar, select Sales Organizations.
A list of all sales organizations in the system is displayed.
-
Click the name of the sales organization you intend to edit.
The sales organization's details are displayed.
-
Open the Payment tab.
The list of available payment methods in the system is displayed.
- Select (or deselect) the checkboxes of the payment methods you intend to enable (or disable) for the current sales organization.
-
Click the Enable or Disable button, accordingly.
The selected payment methods are enabled or disabled immediately.