---
id: '7fa53d650cfde0e8874210e1dc881cd0'
title: 'ISML Function'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/S24779'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:26.373443+00:00'
---
There are two ways to generate dynamic content:

`servlet()`

. See `servlet()`

`action()`

The `action()`

function is only used as a parameter in combination with the functions [ url() ](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1775690000/ISML+Function+-+url)and

`urlex()`

Note

All parameter values you can specify for `action()`

are case sensitive.

action() action(<action>) action(<action>,<servergroup>) action(<action>,<servergroup>,<domain>) action(<action>,<servergroup>,<domain>,<locale>) action(<action>,<servergroup>,<domain>,<locale>,<currency>) action(<action>,<servergroup>,<domain>,<locale>,<currency>,<application>)

The following example shows a simple pipeline call:

<a href="#URL(action('CheckBasketReadyToOrder-Start'))#"> ... link text to be displayed ... </a>

The next example shows a pipeline call with a change of locale and currency:

<a href="#URL(action('CheckBasketReadyToOrder-Start','','','en_US','USD', ''))#">

This example shows a pipeline call with a change of domain (storefront name):

<a href="#URL(action('CheckBasketReadyToOrder','server group', …, 'TransactionStore'))#">

The parameters you can specify are optional and listed below. It is possible to specify only an empty string (="") for a parameter. In this case, the default value of the parameter is used. If `=action()`

is used without specifying any parameters at all, the function will address the default page (home page) of the domain.

`action`

`action = string`


The string defines the name of the target pipeline and an appropriate start node. The default value is the default pipeline (and its start node) of the current storefront (the string *Default-Start* is returned).

Note

The name and start node of the default pipeline is hardcoded in the `RequestHandlerServlet`

. To modify the default pipeline/start node for your site, you can use, for example, the URL rewriting or cartridge assignment mechanisms.

`server`

`server group = string`


The string defines the type of the target server group, e.g., web front or Intershop 7 back office servers. The default value for server group is the current server group of the session.

`domain`

`domain = string`


The string defines the name of the target domain (storefront name). The default value is the current domain of the session.

`locale`

`locale = string`


The string defines the locale of a store. The default value is the current locale of the request.

`currency`

`currency = string`


The string defines the currency of shown prices. The default value is the current currency of the session.

`appID`

`appID = string`


The string defines the application of a site. The default value is represented by the negative sign ( `-`

).

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.