---
id: '807914301c809a50737bbe52bb7540d9'
title: 'Advance Notice: New LTS Release From December 2021'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/30000G'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:39:38.139226+00:00'
---
At the end of December / beginning of January Intershop will introduce a new Long Term Support (LTS) release. Long term support releases are released every 6 months and maintained for one year. In contrast to monthly releases, no new features are made available within an LTS release. Hotfixes, however, are provided regularly during this time.

With the new LTS release the 7.10.26-LTS will become obsolete. This means that as of January 2022 no more hotfix releases will be delivered for 7.10.26-LTS.

We strongly recommend our customers and partners who are still using 7.10.26-LTS releases to switch to the latest LTS version (7.10.32-LTS or newer).

Generally, it is necessary for customers and partners to continuously update their systems to receive and install important bug fixes and security fixes. Intershop offers two strategies to keep systems up to date:

__Continuous Releases (Monthly Releases)__

Monthly releases contain newly introduced features and the latest bug fixes. New features must be checked with your implementation partner and configured or adapted if necessary. Pure bug fix versions for monthly releases are not available. A monthly release contains new functionality and/or API enhancements/changes along with the regular bug fixes. This means for customers who decide for the monthly release path that in order to obtain bug fixes, also the API changes need to be reviewed. Therefore, you have to regularly schedule smaller efforts for such upgrades.

__Long Term Support (LTS) Releases__

For customers who have not planned a budget for continuous upgrades or who cannot upgrade continuously for other reasons, there is the option of receiving regular bug fixes based on an LTS release. The effort required to install hotfix releases on an LTS release is minimal.

Please note, however, that such an LTS release will only be supported for one year. If an outdated LTS is running on a system, a major update to at least the next LTS release is due and it can be assumed that the costs will add up accordingly.

Further information can be found in [Concept - Continuous Releases](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/29460C).

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.