---
id: '80a4e5da4c2f5ff1632ed2439b77fb73'
title: 'Reference'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2986M2'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:36:29.109568+00:00'
---
This API specification is available for download as an Open API 3.0 YAML file:

# References

# API Specification

swagger: '2.0' info: description: Microservice for retrieving order history details from Microsoft systems. version: 2.0.0 title: Order History Service contact: name: Intershop Communications url: 'https://support.intershop.de/' email: support@intershop.de basePath: /orderHistory tags: - name: Order History Service - V1 schemes: - http - https paths: '/customers/urn:customer:MSDynamics365:{customerDataAreaId}:{customerAccountNumber}/orders/urn:order:MSDynamics365:{salesOrderDataAreaId}:{salesOrderNumber}': get: tags: - Order History Service - V1 summary: Retrieves order details for a given customer and order ID. description: '' operationId: getOrderDetails produces: - application/vnd.intershop.orderhistory.V1+json parameters: - name: customerDataAreaId in: path required: true type: string pattern: '[^:/]+?' - name: customerAccountNumber in: path required: true type: string pattern: '[^:/]+?' - name: salesOrderDataAreaId in: path required: true type: string pattern: '[^:/]+?' - name: salesOrderNumber in: path required: true type: string pattern: '[^:/]+?' responses: '200': description: The updated basket schema: $ref: '#/definitions/OrderRO' '500': description: Error calling the backend system. '/customers/urn:customer:MSDynamics365:{customerDataAreaId}:{customerAccountNumber}/orders': get: tags: - Order History Service - V1 summary: Retrieves the order list for a given customer. description: '' operationId: getOrderList produces: - application/vnd.intershop.orderhistory.V1+json parameters: - name: customerDataAreaId in: path required: true type: string pattern: '[^:/]+?' - name: customerAccountNumber in: path required: true type: string pattern: '[^:/]+?' - name: limit in: query required: false type: integer format: int32 - name: offset in: query required: false type: integer format: int32 responses: '200': description: The order list. schema: $ref: '#/definitions/OrderSummaryListRO' '404': description: No orders found for the specified user. '500': description: Error calling the backend system. definitions: AddressRO: type: object required: - addressLine1 - city - contact - countryCode - postalCode properties: addressLine1: type: string example: Sample Street 1a description: 'The first address line, that usual contains street and house number.' city: type: string example: Sample City description: The name of the local authority district. countryCode: type: string example: US description: The ISO 3166 (ALPHA2) country code. postalCode: type: string example: '77093' description: The code of letters and digits used as part of a postal address to aid the sorting of mail. Also called (in Britain and certain other countries) postcode US equivalent zip code. contact: description: The contact data. $ref: '#/definitions/ContactRO' addressType: type: string example: POSTAL description: The address type describes the nature and intended use of the given address. enum: - POSTAL - DIGITAL - STORE companyName1: type: string example: OilCorp Ltd. description: First part of addressee's company name. companyName2: type: string example: OilCorp Corporate Headquarters description: Second part of addressee's company name. addressLine2: type: string example: Northern University description: The second address line. This line is optional if room is needed to include more identifying information than a simple street and house number. addressLine3: type: string example: Floor 3 description: The third address line. This line is optional if room is needed to include additional information. postBox: type: string example: '143' description: The number of a post office box (commonly referred to as a PO box or a postal box). mainDivision: type: string example: Texas description: 'The main division of the country, e.g., state or province.' subDivision: type: string example: Harris County description: 'The sub division of the main division, e.g., county or prefecture.' additionalAttributes: type: array description: Additional attributes specified for the address. items: $ref: '#/definitions/AttributeROObject' description: 'Provides details about an address. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' AttributeRO: type: object discriminator: type properties: name: type: string example: someAttribute description: The attribute's name value: type: object example: 'true' description: The attribute's value. type: type: string example: BOOLEAN description: The attribute's type. enum: - BOOLEAN - DATE - DECIMAL - DOUBLE - INTEGER - LONG - MONEY - QUANTITY - STRING - TEXT description: 'Base type for an attribute (key-value pair). Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' AttributeROObject: type: object properties: name: type: string example: someAttribute description: The attribute's name value: type: object example: 'true' description: The attribute's value. type: type: string example: BOOLEAN description: The attribute's type. enum: - BOOLEAN - DATE - DECIMAL - DOUBLE - INTEGER - LONG - MONEY - QUANTITY - STRING - TEXT description: 'Base type for an attribute (key-value pair). Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' BooleanAttributeRO: allOf: - $ref: '#/definitions/AttributeRO' - type: object properties: name: type: string example: someAttribute description: The attribute's name readOnly: true value: type: boolean example: true description: The attribute value of type Boolean. readOnly: true enum: - true - false type: type: string example: BOOLEAN description: The attribute type. enum: - BOOLEAN description: 'An attribute with a value of the type boolean. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' BucketRO: type: object required: - bucketTotals - items - shipToAddress - shippingMethod properties: shipToAddress: description: The ship-to address of the bucket. $ref: '#/definitions/AddressRO' shippingMethod: description: The shipping method of the bucket. $ref: '#/definitions/ShippingMethodRO' items: type: array description: The items of the bucket. items: $ref: '#/definitions/ItemRO' bucketTotals: description: The totals of the bucket. $ref: '#/definitions/BucketTotalsRO' shippingInstructions: type: string example: Handle with care! description: The shipping instructions for this shipping bucket. bucketDiscounts: type: array description: The bucket discounts for this shipping bucket. items: $ref: '#/definitions/DiscountRO' description: 'Describes a shipping bucket. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' BucketTotalsRO: type: object properties: shippingDiscountsTotal: description: The totals of the bucket discounts. $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' description: 'Describes the bucket totals. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' BuyerRO: type: object required: - contact properties: contact: description: The contact data. $ref: '#/definitions/ContactRO' role: type: string example: BUYER description: Role of the business partner in the checkout process. enum: - BUYER additionalAttributes: type: array description: Additional attributes specified for this role. items: $ref: '#/definitions/AttributeROObject' department: type: string example: Procurement description: The department the buyer is assigned to. gender: type: string example: FEMALE description: Buyer's gender. enum: - MALE - FEMALE dateOfBirth: type: string example: '1989-07-11' description: Buyer's date of birth. accountId: type: string example: patricia.miller@test.intershop.de description: Buyer's account ID. socialSecurityNumber: type: string description: Buyer's social security number. description: 'Describes a business partner holding the role BUYER. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' ContactRO: type: object required: - firstName - lastName properties: firstName: type: string example: Peter description: 'The given name (also known as a personal name, first name, forename, or Christian name) of the contact person.' lastName: type: string example: Sampleman description: 'The surname (also known as a family name, last name, or gentile name) of the contact person.' title: type: string example: Mr. description: 'The personal title, like Ms., Mr.' aristocraticTitle: type: string example: Lady description: 'The aristocratic title of the contact person, like Lady, Lord.' honorific: type: string example: PhD description: 'The honorific title of the contact person, that denotes the honored person''s occupation, like Captain, Coach, Officer, Reverend or the academic title, like PhD.' jobTitle: type: string example: Procurement Lead description: The job title of the contact person. secondName: type: string example: Max description: 'The second given name of the contact person. Allocation depends on the culture area, in European countries this would be regarded as the second name, whereas in United States a person has usually one middle name.' secondLastName: type: string example: Rodriguez description: 'The second last name of the contact person. Allocation depends on the culture area, second last (sur-) name is common in Hispanic culture.' phoneHome: type: string example: +49 (3641) 123456 description: The phone number of the house or apartment where the contact person lives. phoneMobile: type: string example: +49 (165) 5673123 description: The number of contact person's cell phone. phoneBusiness: type: string example: +49 (3641) 50-0 description: The number of contact person's company. phoneBusinessDirect: type: string example: '3479' description: Business phone number extension that allows an outside caller to connect directly to the contact person without any help of an attendant or operator. fax: type: string example: +49 (3641) 50-1344 description: The number of contact persons for facsimile machine. email: type: string example: peter.sampleman@intershop.de description: Contact person's e-mail account. description: 'Provides details about a contact person. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' CustomerRO: type: object required: - customerNo - customerTypeId - customerUrn - roles properties: customerNo: type: string example: OilCorp description: ID uniquely identifying the customer in the context of the store. customerUrn: type: string example: 'urn:customer:ICM:inSPIRED:inTOOLS:OilCorp' description: URN representation of the customer in the INTERSCHOP system. externalCustomerNo: type: string example: '000123456' description: ID uniquely identifying the customer in an external system; required only for registered customers that have already been synchronized with an appropriate external system externalCustomerUrn: type: string example: 'urn:customer:MSDynamics365:MyCorp:0033459' description: URN representation of the customer in an external system; required only for registered customers that have already been synchronized with an appropriate external system customerTypeId: type: string example: PRIVATE description: The customer type ID. enum: - PRIVATE - SMB companyName1: type: string example: OilCorp Ltd. description: First part of customer's company name; for business customers only. companyName2: type: string example: OilCorp Corporate Headquarters description: Second part of customer's company name; for business customers only. taxationId: type: string example: 9XX-78-XXXX description: Customer's tax number. roles: type: array description: The business partners involved in the checkout process. items: $ref: '#/definitions/RoleRO' additionalAttributes: type: array description: Additional attributes specified for the customer. items: $ref: '#/definitions/AttributeROObject' description: 'Provides details about a customer. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' DateAttributeRO: allOf: - $ref: '#/definitions/AttributeRO' - type: object properties: name: type: string example: someAttribute description: The attribute's name readOnly: true value: type: string example: '1989-07-11' description: The attribute value of type Date. readOnly: true type: type: string example: DATE description: The attribute type. enum: - DATE description: 'An attribute with a value of the type date. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' DecimalAttributeRO: allOf: - $ref: '#/definitions/AttributeRO' - type: object properties: name: type: string example: someAttribute description: The attribute's name readOnly: true value: type: number example: 1234.45 description: The attribute value of type DECIMAL. readOnly: true type: type: string example: DECIMAL description: The attribute type. enum: - DECIMAL description: 'An attribute with a value of the type decimal. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' DiscountRO: type: object properties: id: type: string example: 92YKAM6dZtIAAAFb_KwtfPFU description: The ID of the promotion that triggered the discount. promotionType: type: string example: Order Value Off description: The promotion action type. description: type: string example: 20 USD Order discount description: The localized promotion description. code: type: string example: Intershop description: The used promotion code. amount: description: The amount of the applied rebate granted to the parent object. $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' description: 'Describes a discount arising from an applied promotion. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' DocumentInfoRO: type: object required: - currency - documentNo - locale - orderUrn - store properties: orderUrn: type: string example: 'urn:order:ICM:inSPIRED:inTRONICS:00000002' description: URN representation of the order in an Intershop system. documentNo: type: string example: '00000002' description: Order document number uniquely identifying the order in the context of the store. store: type: string example: inTRONICS description: Identifier of the store where the order has been placed. currency: type: string example: USD description: The currency used for calculating prices and costs of the order (ISO 4217). locale: type: string example: en_US description: The locale the business partner used during the checkout process. customerReferenceId: type: string example: RE201700002786598 description: Any custom reference ID of the order that can be specified by the buyer during the checkout process. An example would be a reference number existing in one of buyer's backend systems. costCenter: type: string example: '100400' description: Customer's cost center the order should be assigned too. costCenterName: type: string example: Oil Corp Headquarter description: Name of customer's cost center the order should be assigned too. messageToMerchant: type: string example: Is it possible to send the ordered articles before Christmas? description: Something what the buyer would like to tell the merchant. description: 'Provides information about an order document. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' DoubleAttributeRO: allOf: - $ref: '#/definitions/AttributeRO' - type: object properties: name: type: string example: someAttribute description: The attribute's name readOnly: true value: type: number format: double example: 123.456 description: The attribute value of type Double. readOnly: true type: type: string example: DOUBLE description: The attribute type. enum: - DOUBLE description: 'An attribute with a value of the type double. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' GiftMessageRO: type: object properties: product: description: The Product representing the gift message. $ref: '#/definitions/ProductRO' itemPricing: description: Details about sales and shipping pricing for the Item. $ref: '#/definitions/ItemPricingRO' message: type: string example: Happy birthday! description: The text of the gift message. from: type: string example: Patricia description: The name of the granter of the gift message. to: type: string example: Peter description: The name of the receiver of the gift message. description: 'Describes a gift messages assigned to the line item. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' GiftWrapRO: type: object properties: product: description: The Product representing the gift wrap. $ref: '#/definitions/ProductRO' itemPricing: description: Details about sales and shipping pricing for the Item. $ref: '#/definitions/ItemPricingRO' description: 'Describes a gift wrap assigned to the line item. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' HeaderRO: type: object required: - documentInfo - processInfo properties: documentInfo: description: Information about the processing status of the order. $ref: '#/definitions/DocumentInfoRO' processInfo: description: General information about the order document. $ref: '#/definitions/ProcessInfoRO' description: 'Describes general order document and processing data. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' ImpositionRO: type: object properties: value: type: string example: Sales and Use Tax description: The imposed tax. type: type: string example: General Sales and Use Tax description: The type of the imposed tax. description: The kind of tax imposed/levied on the subjects of a state. IntegerAttributeRO: allOf: - $ref: '#/definitions/AttributeRO' - type: object properties: name: type: string example: someAttribute description: The attribute's name readOnly: true value: type: integer format: int32 example: 1234 description: The attribute value of type integer. readOnly: true type: type: string example: INTEGER description: The attribute type. enum: - INTEGER description: 'An attribute with a value of the type Integer. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' ItemPricingRO: type: object properties: salesPricing: description: Details about the sales pricing of the Item. $ref: '#/definitions/SalesPricingRO' shippingPricing: description: Details about the shipping and handling costs for the Item. $ref: '#/definitions/ShippingPricingRO' surcharges: description: Details about additional surcharges applied to the Item. $ref: '#/definitions/SurchargesRO' description: 'Describes sales and shipping pricing details for the Item. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' ItemProductRO: type: object properties: id: type: string example: 5079747@inSPIRED-inTRONICS description: The ID identifying product uniquely throughout entire communication. sku: type: string example: '5079747' description: The stock keeping unit (SKU) of the product. name: type: string example: InTRONICS IS-25Y Portable description: The product's name. additionalAttributes: type: array description: Additional attributes specified for the Product. items: $ref: '#/definitions/AttributeROObject' isGiftCard: type: boolean example: true description: 'True if Item represents a gift card, false otherwise.' enum: - true - false isDigital: type: boolean example: false description: 'True if Item represents a digital good, false otherwise.' enum: - true - false description: 'Describes a product representing the line item. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' ItemRO: type: object properties: lineItem: description: 'Details about the line item, like line item position, quantity, etc.' $ref: '#/definitions/LineItemRO' itemProduct: description: The Product assigned to the Item. $ref: '#/definitions/ItemProductRO' itemPricing: description: Details about the Item pricing. $ref: '#/definitions/ItemPricingRO' itemGiftWrap: description: Details about the gift wrapping for line item's products. $ref: '#/definitions/GiftWrapRO' itemGiftMessage: description: Details about the gift message that has been added to the line item. $ref: '#/definitions/GiftMessageRO' itemWarranty: description: Details about warranties assigned to the Item. $ref: '#/definitions/WarrantyRO' additionalAttributes: type: array description: Additional attributes specified for the item. items: $ref: '#/definitions/AttributeROObject' description: 'Describes an item contained in a bucket. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' JurisdictionRO: type: object properties: value: type: string example: CANADA description: The jurisdiction. level: type: string example: COUNTRY description: The level of the jurisdiction for which the tax is applied. enum: - APO - BOROUGH - CITY - COUNTRY - COUNTY - DISTRICT - FPO - LOCAL_IMPROVEMENT_DISTRICT - PARISH - PROVINCE - SPECIAL_PURPOSE_DISTRICT - STATE - TERRITORY - TOWNSHIP - TRADE_BLOCK - TRANSIT_DISTRICT id: type: string example: '35763' description: 'The ID identifiying the jurisdiction. This ID can be taxation service dependent, e.g. Vertex, AvaTax' description: 'Describes the jurisdiction, an area subject to its own distinct tax regulations,such as a municipality, city, county, or country. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' LineItemRO: type: object properties: position: type: integer format: int32 description: The position of the item in the order. quantity: description: The quantity of the Item. $ref: '#/definitions/QuantityRO' desiredDeliveryDate: type: string example: '2018-12-20' description: The desired delivery date for the Item. description: 'Describes a line item of an order. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' LongAttributeRO: allOf: - $ref: '#/definitions/AttributeRO' - type: object properties: name: type: string example: someAttribute description: The attribute's name readOnly: true value: type: integer format: int64 example: 1234567890 description: The attribute value of type long. readOnly: true type: type: string example: LONG description: The attribute type. enum: - LONG description: 'An attribute with a value of the type Long. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' MoneyAttributeRO: allOf: - $ref: '#/definitions/AttributeRO' - type: object properties: name: type: string example: someAttribute description: The attribute's name readOnly: true value: description: The attribute value of type money. readOnly: true $ref: '#/definitions/MoneyRO' type: type: string example: MONEY description: The attribute type. enum: - MONEY description: 'An attribute with a value of the type Money. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' MoneyRO: type: object required: - currency - value properties: currency: type: string example: USD description: Three-letter currency code (ISO 4217) of the monetary value. value: type: number example: 10.99 description: The monetary value. description: 'Money combines a currency and a money amount. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' OrderDiscountsRO: type: object properties: orderValueDiscounts: type: array description: All discounts granted on the order total. items: $ref: '#/definitions/DiscountRO' orderShippingDiscounts: type: array description: All discounts granted on shipping and handling costs. items: $ref: '#/definitions/DiscountRO' description: 'Provides details about the applied discounts on order level. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' OrderRO: type: object required: - buckets - header - invoiceToAddress - payments - totals properties: header: description: General information about the order. $ref: '#/definitions/HeaderRO' totals: description: The order totals. $ref: '#/definitions/TotalsRO' invoiceToAddress: description: The invoice-to address of the order. $ref: '#/definitions/AddressRO' buckets: type: array description: The shipping buckets of the order. items: $ref: '#/definitions/BucketRO' payments: type: array description: The payments used to pay the order. items: $ref: '#/definitions/PaymentRO' customer: description: The customer who placed the order. Note that customer is not specified in case of unregistered checkout! $ref: '#/definitions/CustomerRO' orderDiscounts: description: The discounts applied to the order totals. $ref: '#/definitions/OrderDiscountsRO' additionalAttributes: type: array description: Additional attributes specified for the order. items: $ref: '#/definitions/AttributeROObject' description: 'Describes an order. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' PaymentRO: type: object required: - id - limitedTender - paymentBaseAmount - paymentCosts - paymentTotalAmount - status properties: id: type: string example: ISH_INVOICE description: The ID of the payment method. limitedTender: type: boolean example: true description: Whether the payment represents a limited tender. enum: - true - false paymentBaseAmount: description: The base amount of the payment (i. e. the amount which the payment costs are determined for). $ref: '#/definitions/MoneyRO' paymentTotalAmount: description: The total amount of the payment (i. e. base amount plus payment costs). $ref: '#/definitions/MoneyRO' status: type: string example: CREATED description: The status of the payment. paymentCosts: description: The costs of the payment. $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' paymentTaxes: type: array description: The payment taxes of this payment. items: $ref: '#/definitions/TaxItemRO' additionalAttributes: type: array description: Additional attributes specified for the payment. items: $ref: '#/definitions/AttributeROObject' description: 'Describes a payment. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' PriceRO: type: object required: - gross - net properties: net: description: The net value. $ref: '#/definitions/MoneyRO' gross: description: The gross value. $ref: '#/definitions/MoneyRO' tax: description: The tax value. $ref: '#/definitions/MoneyRO' description: 'Describes a price. A price has a monetary net, gross and tax value. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' ProcessInfoRO: type: object required: - creationDate - status properties: status: type: string description: Processing the status of the order. enum: - CANCELLED - CANCELLEDANDEXPORTED - COMPLETED - CREATED - DELIVERED - EXPORTFAILED - INPROGRESS - MANUAL_INTERVENTION_NEEDED - NEW - NOTDELIVERABLE - OPEN - PAYMENTCANCELLED - PENDING - REJECTED - RETURNED creationDate: type: string example: '2001-07-04T12:08:56.235-07:00' description: 'The date, the order has been placed.' subscriptionNo: type: string example: 00975-9C1 description: The document no of the subscription if the order is triggered by a subscription. description: 'Describes the processing state of the order. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' ProductRO: type: object properties: id: type: string example: 5079747@inSPIRED-inTRONICS description: The ID identifying product uniquely throughout entire communication. sku: type: string example: '5079747' description: The stock keeping unit (SKU) of the product. name: type: string example: InTRONICS IS-25Y Portable description: The product's name. additionalAttributes: type: array description: Additional attributes specified for the Product. items: $ref: '#/definitions/AttributeROObject' description: 'Descibes a product. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' QuantityAttributeRO: allOf: - $ref: '#/definitions/AttributeRO' - type: object properties: name: type: string example: someAttribute description: The attribute's name readOnly: true value: description: The attribute value of type quantity. readOnly: true $ref: '#/definitions/QuantityRO' type: type: string example: QUANTITY description: The attribute type. enum: - QUANTITY description: 'An attribute with a value of the type Quantity. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' QuantityRO: type: object required: - unit - value properties: unit: type: string example: pcs. description: The unit of measurement. value: type: number example: 3 description: The quantity value. description: 'Quantity combines a quantity value and the unit of measurement the value is defined in. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' RoleRO: type: object discriminator: role properties: role: type: string example: BUYER description: Role of the business partner in the checkout process. enum: - BUYER additionalAttributes: type: array description: Additional attributes specified for this role. items: $ref: '#/definitions/AttributeROObject' description: 'Base type for business partners. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' SalesPricingRO: type: object required: - price - singleBasePrice - singleBasePriceRemainder - undiscountedPrice - undiscountedSingleBasePrice properties: singleBasePrice: description: The price of a single unit with all item value discounts. $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' undiscountedSingleBasePrice: description: The price of a single unit without any item value discounts. $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' price: description: The price with all item value discounts. $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' undiscountedPrice: description: The price of the line item without any discounts. $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' singleBasePriceRemainder: description: The remainder resulting from splitting order discounts to item's single base prices. $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' itemValueDiscountsTotal: description: The total of all value discounts of the item. $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' itemValueDiscounts: type: array description: All discounts granted on the sales price. items: $ref: '#/definitions/DiscountRO' taxes: type: array description: All taxes applied to the net price. items: $ref: '#/definitions/TaxItemRO' description: 'Describes sales pricing details for Item, GiftMessage, GiftWrap, Warranty. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' ShippingMethodRO: type: object required: - id properties: id: type: string example: STD_GROUND description: The id of the shipping method. name: type: string example: STANDARD GROUND description: The localized name of the shipping method. additionalAttributes: type: array description: Additional attributes specified for this shipping method. items: $ref: '#/definitions/AttributeROObject' description: 'Describes a shipping method. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' ShippingPricingRO: type: object properties: undiscountedShippingTotal: description: The total for shipping and handling of the Item. $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' itemShippingDiscounts: type: array description: All discounts granted on shipping and handling costs. items: $ref: '#/definitions/DiscountRO' itemShippingDiscountsTotal: description: The total of all shipping discounts of the item. $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' taxes: type: array description: All taxes applied to the shipping and handling costs. items: $ref: '#/definitions/TaxItemRO' description: 'Describes shipping pricing details for an Item. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' StringAttributeRO: allOf: - $ref: '#/definitions/AttributeRO' - type: object properties: name: type: string example: someAttribute description: The attribute's name readOnly: true value: type: string example: a string value description: The attribute value of type string. readOnly: true type: type: string example: STRING description: The attribute type. enum: - STRING description: 'An attribute with a value of the type String. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' SurchargeRO: type: object required: - amount - name properties: amount: description: The surcharge's amount. $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' name: type: string example: Fridge Box description: The surcharge's localized name. description: type: string example: Needs a fridge box for shipping. description: The surcharge's localized description. taxes: type: array description: The taxes applied to the surcharge. items: $ref: '#/definitions/TaxItemRO' description: 'Describes a single surcharge. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' SurchargesRO: type: object properties: itemSurcharges: type: array description: All item based extra charges arising from surcharges directly specified on product or by shipping rules with action type 'item'. items: $ref: '#/definitions/SurchargeRO' itemImportSurcharges: type: array description: All item based extra charges arising from surcharges directly specified on product or by shipping rules with action type 'item - import'. items: $ref: '#/definitions/SurchargeRO' itemSurchargesTotal: description: The total of all item based extra charges arising from surcharges directly specified on product or by shipping rules with action types 'item' and 'item - import'. $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' distributedBucketSurcharges: type: array description: The percentage shares of all surcharges specified for the bucket this line item is contained in. These shares are arising from surcharges created by shipping rules with action type 'bucket'. items: $ref: '#/definitions/SurchargeRO' distributedBucketSurchargesTotal: description: The total of the percentage shares of all surcharges levied on the bucket this line item is contained in. These shares are arising from surcharges created by shipping rules with action type 'bucket'. $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' surchargesTotal: description: 'The net total of all surcharges levied on this line item, containing surcharge types ''item'', ''item -import'' and ''bucket''.' $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' description: ' Details about additional surcharges arising from shipping, handling and import fees. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' TaxItemRO: type: object properties: calculatedTax: description: The calculated tax amount. $ref: '#/definitions/MoneyRO' effectiveTaxRate: type: number description: The effective rate used to calculate the tax. taxId: type: string example: tax.germany.vat.full description: The ISH internal or user defined ID of the tax that can be used for retrieval of localized taxName. taxName: type: string example: Germany Full VAT (19%) description: The ISH internal or user defined localized tax name. situs: type: string example: DESTINATION description: The situs/place of taxation. enum: - 'NULL' - ADMINISTRATIVE_DESTINATION - ADMINISTRATIVE_ORIGIN - DESTINATION - ORIGIN jurisdiction: description: 'The jurisdiction, an area subject to its own distinct tax regulations, such as a municipality, city, county or country.' $ref: '#/definitions/JurisdictionRO' imposition: $ref: '#/definitions/ImpositionRO' nonTaxableAmount: description: 'The amount, no tax has been calculated for. This is the portion of a specific price or a cost amount that is ignored for tax purposes.' $ref: '#/definitions/MoneyRO' taxableAmount: description: 'The amount, the tax has been calculated for. This is the portion of a specific price or a cost amount that is subject to tax.' $ref: '#/definitions/MoneyRO' description: 'Describes a single tax item. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' TextAttributeRO: allOf: - $ref: '#/definitions/AttributeRO' - type: object properties: name: type: string example: someAttribute description: The attribute's name readOnly: true value: type: string example: 'Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, ...' description: The attribute value of type text. readOnly: true type: type: string example: TEXT description: The attribute type. enum: - TEXT description: 'An attribute with a value of type Text. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' TotalsRO: type: object required: - grandTotal - itemTotal - shippingTotal - undiscountedItemTotal - undiscountedShippingTotal properties: grandTotal: description: 'Grand total order value, simply spoken what the buyer has to pay for the order.' $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' itemTotal: description: 'Accumulated line item prices of the order including all discounts granted for line item prices (item value discounts). (Note: This value replaces the former "discountedItemTotal".)' $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' undiscountedItemTotal: description: 'Accumulated line item prices of the order without any discounts. (Note: This value replaces the former "itemTotal".)' $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' shippingTotal: description: 'Accumulated shipping costs of the order including all discounts, granted for shipping costs on all levels of the order (line item, shipping bucket, order). (Note: This value replaces the former "shippingTotal".)' $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' undiscountedShippingTotal: description: 'Accumulated shipping costs of the order without any discounts. (Note: This value replaces the former "discountedShippingTotal".)' $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' discountTotal: description: 'Accumulated discounts of the order. Includes all kinds of discounts (item value, shipping) granted for item prices and shipping costs on all levels of the order (line item, shipping bucket, order).' $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' giftingTotal: description: Accumulated costs for gift wraps and messages. $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' surchargeTotal: description: 'Accumulated surcharges of the order, e.g. for bulky goods.' $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' itemValueDiscountsTotal: description: 'Accumulated item level value discounts of the order, granted for line item prices on line item level.' $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' itemShippingDiscountsTotal: description: 'Accumulated line item level shipping discounts of the order, granted for shipping costs on line item level.' $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' bucketShippingDiscountsTotal: description: 'Accumulated bucket level shipping discounts of the order, granted for shipping costs on shipping bucket level.' $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' orderValueDiscountsTotal: description: 'Accumulated order level value discounts of the order, granted for item prices on order level.' $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' orderShippingDiscountsTotal: description: 'Accumulated order level shipping discounts of the order, granted for shipping costs on order level.' $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' valueDiscountsTotal: description: 'Accumulated value discounts of the order, granted for item prices on line item and order level.' $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' shippingDiscountsTotal: description: 'Accumulated shipping discounts of the order, granted for shipping costs on all levels (line item, shipping bucket, order).' $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' paymentCostsTotal: description: Accumulated payment costs of the order. $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' salesTaxTotalsByTaxRate: type: array description: 'All taxes applied to item sales prices of the order, accumulated by their tax rates.' items: $ref: '#/definitions/TaxItemRO' shippingTaxTotalsByTaxRate: type: array description: 'All taxes applied to shipping costs of the order, accumulated by their tax rates.' items: $ref: '#/definitions/TaxItemRO' taxTotalsByTaxRate: type: array description: 'All taxes applied to the order, accumulated by their tax rates. Includes taxes applied to item sales prices, shipping costs and surcharges.' items: $ref: '#/definitions/TaxItemRO' description: 'Describes the order totals. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' WarrantyRO: type: object properties: product: description: The Product representing the warranty. $ref: '#/definitions/ProductRO' itemPricing: description: Details about sales and shipping pricing for the Item. $ref: '#/definitions/ItemPricingRO' description: 'Describes a warranty assigned to the line item. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' OrderSummaryListRO: type: object properties: orderSummaries: type: array description: The list of order summaries items: $ref: '#/definitions/OrderSummaryRO' offset: type: integer format: int32 example: For example offset=100 and limit=20 will retrieve 20 rows starting with the 100th row. description: 'The offset, means all entries, starting from the first one, will be skipped until the desired one has been found.' limit: type: integer format: int32 description: Limit the number of entries provided by the response to the specified value. totalCount: type: integer format: int32 description: 'The total element count, i. e. the maximum number of records that can be retrieved.' startDate: type: string example: '2001-07-04T12:08:56.235-07:00' description: The begin of the date range for order creation date. endDate: type: string example: '2001-07-04T12:08:56.235-07:00' description: The end of the date range for order creation date. description: 'Describes a list of order summaries. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!' OrderSummaryRO: type: object required: - creationDate - destinations - externalOrderUrn - grandTotal - itemCount - orderDetailUri - orderUrn - status properties: orderUrn: type: string example: 'urn:order:ICM:inSPIRED:inTRONICS:00000002' description: URN representation of the order in an Intershop system. externalOrderUrn: type: string example: 'urn:order:MSDynamics365:MyCorp:0023975' description: URN representation of the order in a backend system. creationDate: type: string example: '2001-07-04T12:08:56.235-07:00' description: date the order has been placed status: type: string description: The processing status of the order. Depends on the status values defined by the backend system. grandTotal: description: The grand total order value (i. e. what the buyer has to pay) $ref: '#/definitions/PriceRO' orderDetailUri: type: string description: The uri for order details. destinations: type: array description: The shipping addresses of the order. items: $ref: '#/definitions/AddressRO' itemCount: type: integer format: int32 description: The items number of the order. customerReferenceId: type: string example: RE201700002786598 description: Any custom reference ID of the order that can be specified by the buyer during the checkout process. An example would be a reference number existing in one of buyer's backend systems. buyer: description: The corresponding buyer of the order. $ref: '#/definitions/BuyerRO' description: 'Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject of change!'