---
id: '82d19113658ea7504dacdc5c2906fd35'
title: 'Guide - Intershop PWA'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3R0846'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:30:19.408891+00:00'
---
Product contexts provide easy access to all data related to a single product.

The context itself stores the `sku`

and (optional) the `quantity`

of the product and delegates all other information from the [State Management](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/g/intershop/intershop-pwa/blob/develop/docs/concepts/state-management.md) in a simplified fashion.

The following screenshots provide examples where product contexts are used on some pages:

For product pages, there is always one context that spans the entire content of the product page.

However, additional contexts for recommended products or bundled products may exist on the page.

For listings of any kind, individual contexts exist on the page for each product.

Product Contexts can also be linked to their parent contexts.

Unlike regular facades, which are available globally and have only one instance available at runtime, context facades are provided using [ ElementInjector](https://angular.io/guide/hierarchical-dependency-injection#elementinjector) and are therefore only available for elements enclosed in the document subtree for which the element introduced the context.

`ProductContextDirective`

The easiest way to start a product context is by using the [ ProductContextDirective](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/develop/src/app/core/directives/product-context.directive.ts) on templates:

```
@for (item of lineItems$ | async; track item.sku) {
<div class="..." ishProductContext [sku]="item.sku">
<ish-product-name></ish-product-name>
</div>
}
```

What happens here?

`item`

from `lineItems$`

, a product context for embedded elements is provided.`item.sku`

which also triggers fetching the product if it is not already available in the store.`ish-product-name`

component will render the product name.This also portrays one of the main advantages of using this concept: No bubbling of product related data is necessary anymore.

The `ish-product-name`

component injects the provided context and decides which data is used for rendering.

Note: [ ProductDetailComponent](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/develop/src/app/pages/product/product-detail/product-detail.component.html) is only used for layout and styling, whereas the context is provided by the outer

`ProductPageComponent`

`ProductContextFacade`

There are cases for which it is not possible to use the directive: For example, when the parent component does not have access to all required information or when the component has to introduce another context by itself.

In this case the [ ProductContextFacade](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/develop/src/app/core/facades/product-context.facade.ts) has to be added to the

`providers`

array of the `@Component`

```
@Component({
...
providers: [ProductContextFacade],
})
export class MyComponent implements OnInit {
constructor(private context: ProductContextFacade) {}
ngOnInit() {
this.context.set('sku', () => this.staticValue);
// or
this.context.connect('sku', this.streamValue$);
}
}
```

`SelectedProductContextFacade`

For pages that use the `:sku`

route parameter, the product context can be introduced on page level by using [ SelectedProductContextFacade](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/develop/src/app/core/facades/selected-product-context.facade.ts).

Have a look at [ ProductPageComponent](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/develop/src/app/pages/product/product-page.component.ts) for an example.

`ProductContextFacade`

The easiest way to interact with the context is to do the same as you would do with facades.

Inject the [ ProductContextFacade](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/develop/src/app/core/facades/product-context.facade.ts) into your components and relay data for the template into observables and use the

```
@Component({ ... })
export class MyComponent implements OnInit {
productName$: Observable<string>;
constructor(private context: ProductContextFacade) {}
ngOnInit() {
this.productName$ = this.context.select('product', 'name');
}
doSomething() {
this.context.doSomething();
}
}
```

`@if (productName$ | async) { ... }`

`ProductContextAccessDirective`

If access to the context is required in the template without injecting it into the component (i.e. if the component has multiple embedded contexts), the [ ProductContextAccessDirective](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/develop/src/app/core/directives/product-context-access.directive.ts) can be used:

```
@for (item of lineItems$ | async; track item.sku) {
<div class="..." ishProductContext [sku]="item.sku">
<ng-container *ishProductContextAccess="let product = product; let context = context">
{{ product.sku }}
<input type="button" (click)="context.doSomething()" />
</ng-container>
</div>
}
```

In this example, the product context is created for each `item`

and afterwards the property `product`

from the context is used with `ishProductContextAccess`

and thereby made available to the embedded template.

This feature should only be used for edge cases, as it is very verbose and most of the time a proper refactoring of the embedded template into a new component can improve the code style.

There are cases where product contexts are used as meta contexts for handling add-to-cart functionality and validations thereof.

For [product retail sets](https://intershoppwa.azurewebsites.net/prdM4548736000919) the surrounding product context is used as a meta context with two add-to-cart buttons (one at the detail on top, one at the button after the listing for contained items).

If those buttons are pressed, the correct amount for quantities is used to perform the add-to-cart action.

Those buttons also disable themselves if the quantity of one individual retail set part exceeds the maximum allowed order quantity.

All of this is also handled in the [ ProductContextFacade](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/develop/src/app/core/facades/product-context.facade.ts) if the embedded contexts are initialized using

`ProductContextDirective`

`propagateIndex`

.Currently this feature is only used for enabling or disabling add-to-cart functionality, though.

Product contexts also contain all logic for deciding if specific functionality is available for each individual product.

Each component that handles items of this configuration checks if they are active themselves.

This functionality can be customized by changing the [ defaultDisplayProperties](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/develop/src/app/core/facades/product-context.facade.ts).

A more elaborate way would be to provide an [ ExternalDisplayPropertiesProvider](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/develop/src/app/core/facades/product-context.facade.ts).

`PunchoutProductContextDisplayPropertiesService`

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.