---
id: '84871375e3b9ff0df64df5a1fe68c0a0'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/29M142'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:30.734874+00:00'
---
This guide describes how to add Text Indexes using Microsoft SQL Server. For information on how to handle Text Indexes on Oracle DB, see [Cookbook - Oracle Text Index (valid to 7.10)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1773254591/Cookbook+-+Oracle+Text+Index+valid+to+7.10).

The configuration of table columns for Text Indexes using SQL Server differs to Oracle.

In the cartridge* dbinit.properties* file where the database table is created add the following preparer:

post.ClassXX = com.intershop.beehive.core.dbinit.preparer.database.TextIndexPreparer

It is required to specify the table columns which are desired to be included in the Text Index. Add this configuration to the cartridge-specific properties file:

################################################################################ # text index configuration ################################################################################ intershop.cartridges.text_index.<<table_name>>=<<LIST,OF,COLUMNS>>

The property key consists of the prefix `intershop.cartridges.text_index.`

and the table name (in uppercase letters). The value of this key is the list of included columns. Multiple column names can be delimited by a comma.

Note

For every table only a single Text index can be created. So all required index columns need to be added into one index.

To provide a custom index configuration, create a Java class implementing the interface `com.intershop.beehive.core.capi.jdbc.TextIndexColumnsProvider`

:

package com.intershop.beehive.core.capi.jdbc; import java.sql.SQLException; import java.util.Collection; /** * Classes implementing this interface return a collection of Strings * representing the columns to be included in the text index */ public interface TextIndexColumnsProvider { public static final String NAME_SUFFIX = "_TextIndexColumnsProvider"; public static final String GENERAL_PROVIDER = "GeneralTextIndexColumnsProvider"; /** * defines columns included in Text Index for given table * @param tableName the name of the table * @return Collection of columns * @throws SQLException */ Collection<String> getColumns(String tableName) throws SQLException; }

The method `getColumns(String tableName)`

will return the list of column names included in the Text Index. For an example see class `com.intershop.beehive.core.internal.jdbc.XMLAttributesTextIndexColumnsProvider`

which provides the column names for `XMLExtensibleObjectPO`

.

Bind this class to the `TextIndexColumnsProvider`

using Guice:

bind(TextIndexColumnsProvider.class).annotatedWith(Names.named(<<table_name>> + TextIndexColumnsProvider.NAME_SUFFIX)).to(<<your_provider_class_name>>.class).in(Singleton.class);

Ensure that this binding is annotated with your table name so that the class will be found later by the preparer.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.