---
id: '8533b32c7058c04927727c604575f204'
title: 'ISML Tag'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2T4744'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:15.769421+00:00'
---
`<ISCONTENT>`

modifies the HTTP header of the generated output stream sent to the browser or e-mail client. The HTTP header is identified by its MIME type. In most cases, you do not need to set the type because this is done automatically by the node or pipelet that calls the template. These nodes set the MIME header as follows:

`text/html`

.`SendMail`

pipelet `text/plain`

.If you want to overwrite these defaults, or if you want your template to generate a different type of output (e.g. when using the [ <ISBINARY> ](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1775686356/ISML+Tag+-+ISBINARY)tag), you can explicitly specify another MIME type in the type attribute.

Additionally, the `<ISCONTENT>`

tag:

You can also dynamically select `<ISCONTENT>`

settings.

Note

Due to a JSP limitation, the <ISCONTENT> tag must be placed before any resulting content in the ISML page (including whitespace characters).

<iscontent [ compact = "( true | false )" ] [ templatemarker = "( true | false )" ] [ type = "( {String} | {ISML expression} )" ] [ charset = "{String}" ] [ httpstatus = "( {Integer} | {ISML expression} )" ] [ session = "( true | false )" ] [ personalized = "( true | false )" ] [ encoding = "( on |off | html | xml | wml )" ] >

This example sets the content type and the character set to be used by the ISML-to-JSP compiler:

<ISCONTENT type = "plain/text" charset = "iso-8859-1"> <ISCONTENT compact = "true">

The following attributes are all optional.

`compact`

`compact = true | false`


This attribute ensures that all extra white spaces are removed during the template conversion process. See section *The Template Conversion Process* of the *Application Programming Guide* for details and examples.

`templatemaker`

`templatemarker = true | false`


If set to `true`

(default), the resulting markup is surrounded by the following two comment lines:

<!-- BEGIN TEMPLATE $templateName$ --> <!-- END TEMPLATE $templateName$ -->

If set to `false`

, the above comments are omitted from the output.

Note

The default value for this attribute can be set using the `intershop.template.PrintTemplateMarker`

property in *IS_SHARE/system/config/cluster/appserver.properties*.

`type`

`type = String | ISML Expression`


Specifies the MIME type of the generated output stream. The default value depends on the template type, generally storefront pages are set to `plain/HTML`

and e-mail output is set to `plain/text`

.

`charset`

`charset = String`


Defines the character set assumed by the ISML-to-JSP compiler when reading the template. See section *Character Encoding in the Conversion Process* in the *Application Programming Guide*.

`httpstatus`

`httpstatus = Integer | ISML expression`


`session`

`session = true | false`


Default value is `true`

. The session attribute results in a `<@page session="true"...>`

entry in the JSP file. The servlet engine is able to provide session context information to Java Beans. Such data would be meaningful when the session is originated by an HTTP request. Templates that are not associated with an HTTP request will provide no meaningful context data. Therefore, the session flag should be set to `false`

for all pipelines executed by means other than an HTTP request.

`personalized`

`personalized = true | false`


Templates can be marked as personalized or non-personalized. See Personalized Page Caching for more information on the caching behavior of personalization pages. To activate the personalization feature, the `personalized attribute`

must be appended to the `<ISCONTENT>`

tag. This attribute indicates whether a template contains personalized content:

`<iscontent personalized="true">`


This marks the page for a specific group of users, where the number of cached pages coincides with the number of user groups in your system. For example, if you have ten different user groups, the system caches the page showing product prices ten times according to the specific requirements of the user groups. You cannot select or deselect one or more user groups for page caching.

`<iscontent personalized="false">`


This page is identical for all users. Regardless of how many user groups exist, a specific page is cached only once.

Note

By default, the value for the personalized attribute is set to false.

`encoding`

`encoding = on | off | html | xml | wml`


Default value is `on`

for the selected content type. Naming a content type, for example `html`

has the same affect as using the `on`

flag. All data processed after the first occurrence of `<ISCONTENT>`

are affected by this setting. `encoding`

converts characters that could cause a syntax conflict. For example, when set to `html`

the ampersand symbol "&" is converted to `&`

.

Note

It is possible, though rarely helpful, to generate one type of content through the type command and then encode the output with a different content type. Generally, the values `on`

and `off`

will suffice.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.