---
id: '85e29ddfa7eae1ee0c776ae0e776706d'
title: 'Activate Reworked Job ProcessActivePromotionProducts'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/31181K'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:24.325309+00:00'
---
This migration guide describes changes related to the [ProcessActivePromotionProducts](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1751057620) job.

The reworked Job pipeline [ProcessActivePromotionProducts](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1751057620) introduced with version 7.10.38.9, see [Guide - 7.10.38.9 Rework Job ProcessActivePromotionProducts](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/37689295322), had to be enabled manually to improve the performance of the job. Now the new pipeline is used by default.

Therefore, the former start node *Start_Beta* has been renamed to *Start* and the former node *Start* is still available as *Start_Legacy*.

The start node *Start_Both* is also still available and will call both *Start* and *Start_Legacy*.

The “*_Beta*” suffix has also been removed from the internal start nodes.

Additionally, a resource lock on the `PROMOTION`

database table has been added to the job pipeline (both start nodes) to prevent database deadlocks due to already locked resources. The acquired lock is released at the end of the job pipeline.

If the lock cannot be acquired, the job fails. It is not repeated, but run again at the next regular time.

No migration is required if the old job pipeline is not used.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.