---
id: '875bc6fcfc3c7db650ad5e1a196e6eb4'
title: 'Payment Method Handling'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/328Z64'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:09.901791+00:00'
---
# Payment Method Handling

Intershop Commerce Management integrates payment methods as "services" via dedicated service provider cartridges, see [Services: Concepts](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/operation_maintenance/topic_services_concept.html). To make payment methods technically available on the organization, channel or application level, system managers create "service configurations", which represent a configurable association between a service type and the given management context. The business-relevant settings for payment methods, however, are defined in the context of sales channel only.

For details about managing service configurations, see [Services Management](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/operation_maintenance/topic_services_management.html).

The sections below introduce the business-relevant settings for payment methods. For details about their actual configuration, see [Payment Method Management](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/orders_fulfillment/topic_payment_method_management.html).

## Payment Method Applications

Payment methods can be individually made available to the applications of a channel. For details about channel applications, see [Applications](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/introduction/topic_basic_concepts.html#con_basic_oma_app).

## Payment Costs

Payment methods can be associated with a cost to be charged if the payment method is selected. Payment costs can be defined for any available currency. When defining payment costs, the following values can be provided:

-
Minimum Order Value

This value defines the minimum order value which must be reached for the payment cost to become effective. Orders below the minimum order value will not be charged with a cost for the selected payment method. If left empty, no minimum order value applies.

-
Amount

This value determines the cost to be charged for the respective payment method. Only positive values can be entered in this mandatory field. Note that a specific taxation policy can be defined for the payment cost amount, determining whether (and to which extent) the defined payment cost is included in the tax calculation. For example, if value "NoTax" is selected, the payment cost is not included when calculating the due tax. On the other hand, if "FullTax" is selected, the payment costs are included in the tax calculation process and subject to the standard tax rate.

-
Threshold

This value defines the maximum order value up to which the payment cost applies. Orders with an order value equal to or above the threshold will not be charged with a cost for the selected payment method. If left empty, no maximum order value applies.


## Customer Segment Assignments

Each payment method can be made available to all customers or to selected customer segments, see [Customer Segments](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/customer_management/concept_customer_segments.html). Payment methods can also be assigned to the group "No One", which means they are unavailable to customers in the storefront.

## Payment Preferences

For each payment method, you can define specific preferences, including

-
Currency-Dependent Availability

You can individually enable or disable a payment method depending on the order currency.

-
Payment Currency

For each available order currency, you can specify a different currency that will be used to process the payment.