---
id: '881e18cbb269d5bb9c54b61e2d8e5033'
title: 'Requesting Product Data Modifications'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/B32368'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:11.823947+00:00'
---
# Requesting Product Data Modifications

Depending on the current approval status, product approvers and catalog & product managers can request product data modifications in case they identify missing or incorrect data, by setting the approval status to "Edit".

## Requesting Product Data Modifications in Detail View

To set the approval status "Edit" for a single product in the product detail view:

-
Locate the product that requires modification.
Tip:You may use the product completeness check to identify the intended product. For details, see
[Product Completeness](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/topic_product_completeness.html). -
Click the name of the product you intend to edit.
The opens the General tab of the Standard Product dialog, displaying the current approval status in the upper right corner.
-
Click Back to editing.
This opens a dialog prompting you to specify a reason.
-
Specify a reason, and click OK.
This switches the approval status for the current product to "Edit".

## Requesting Product Data Modifications in Batch Mode

[Editing Products in Batch Mode](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/task_editing_products_in_batch_mode.html):

-
Locate the products that require modification.
Select the checkboxes for the products on the product list view and click the Edit Selected button. Alternatively, perform an advanced search (see
[Advanced Search](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/task_advanced_search_products.html)) and click the Edit All button to apply edits to the search result.Tip:You may use the Product Overview statistics to identify the intended products. For details, see[Viewing the Product Overview](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/task_viewing_product_overview.html). -
Select the task Update Product Approval Status and click Next.
This starts the wizard to update the product approval status.
-
Select the current approval and/or completeness status, set "Edit" as the new approval status, and click Next.
This displays the confirmation page.
-
Verify the changes to be applied, then click Finish.
This switches the approval status for the selected products to "Edit".