---
id: '88a72eaa0ab2f8e2223296277fc230f3'
title: 'Managing Profanity Check Settings'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32739G'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:39.412632+00:00'
---
# Managing Profanity Check Settings

To edit profanity check settings:

-
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Preferences.
This displays the Preferences overview page.
-
Select Profanity Check.
This displays the overview page. It is divided into two sections, Default Profanity Word Definition and Custom Profanity Word Definition, that list the defined profanity check configurations.Note:The sales channel inherits the default profanity check configuration from its parent organization. A custom profanity check configuration will be valid for the current sales channel only.
-
In the corresponding section, click either the name of an existing configuration, or click New to create a new definition set.
This displays the detail page.
-
Select the intended locale and click Apply.
This displays the prohibited words for the selected locale.
-
In the Prohibited Words field, add or edit the intended "bad words" as necessary.
Tip:The check for prohibited words is case-insensitive.
-
Click Apply to save your settings.
Otherwise, click Reset to discard your changes.Note:Clicking Back to List returns you to the overview page.When editing the default configuration inherited from the parent organization, you will be warned and prompted to explicitly confirm the modifications. To discard any sales-channel-specific changes to the default list, click Load Global List.

Note:

The default profanity check configuration cannot be deleted.