---
id: '8925fd8a9bc5b5ac5b38a594e8ab14df'
title: 'Managing Page Variant Assignments'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32484G'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:43.942342+00:00'
---
# Managing Page Variant Assignments

Managing page variant assignments comprises adding page variants to pages (content/system pages, category pages or product pages, as allowed by the page variant type), and removing these assignments.

## Assigning Page Variants to Pages

[Adding Page Variants to a Page](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/content_management/topic_adding_page_variants_to_page.html#task_page_mgmt_vrnt).

To create a page assignment for a page variant:

-
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Page Variants.
This opens the Page Variants list view.
-
Click the name of the page variant you intend to edit.
This opens the Content tab of the detail view.
-
Change to the Assignments tab.
There is a section for each available page type. The sections with existing assignments are expanded, the others are collapsed.Note:The available pages depend on the allowed assignments as defined by the page variant type.
-
In the corresponding section, click Assign.
This opens the wizard to assign the current page variant to a page of the selected type.
- Select the intended page, and click Next to continue.
-
Set the visibility period and priority as required, and click Finish.
The page variant is assigned to the selected page.

## Unassigning Page Variants

-
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Page Variants.
This opens the Page Variants list view.
-
Click the name of the page variant you intend to edit.
This opens the Content tab of the detail view.
- Change to the Assignments tab.
-
Select the assignment you intend to remove.
Select the checkbox of the intended assignment in the corresponding section.
-
Click Unassign, and confirm the operation.
The current page variant is unassigned from the selected page.