---
id: '89975385591c01a794daecaf8823c5fa'
title: 'Exporting URLs'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/G32598'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:19.500614+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/G32598

# Exporting URLs

You can export storefront URLs for categories and products of this sales channel in CSV format. To do so:
-
Navigate to the Link Import & Export page of Link Management.
-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Marketing | Link Management.
-
Click Import & Export.

-
In the URL Export row, click Export.
The list of catalogs in the sales channel is displayed.

-
Select the catalogs to export and click Next.
Alternatively, click a catalog name to open the category tree and select the categories to export.

-
Configure the export scope and provide an export file name.
Select whether to export the URLs of assigned products and whether to export the selected categories recursively.

-
Click Export.
The export process is started immediately. The Import & Export Status dialog is displayed.

-
Download the export file.

## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.