---
id: '89c91828c15c18499bb758c255cbe915'
title: 'Overview'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3146U2'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:08.110861+00:00'
---
The Intershop Administration Portal provides apps that complement the functionality of Intershop Commerce Management (ICM). It is a multi-tenant, cloud-based service hosted and maintained by Intershop, offering one unified platform for all customers.

Single Sign-On (SSO) is supported across all apps. This means users authenticate once with centrally managed credentials and can then access all authorized apps within the portal without having to log in separately to each one.

The following applications are available. Each can be licensed individually. Depending on the permissions set, not all apps may be accessible to every user.

The Admin Center provides features to help administrators manage users and assign access privileges.

For further information, refer to the [Intershop Admin Center Help](https://docs.intershop.com/iap/olh/iac/en/index.html).

The Content Management Center provides the Design View, a graphical interface for managing and editing online shop content. Changes can be previewed in real time, and users can assign components to slots, update images and data, and perform other content editing tasks. This new editing experience is exclusively available for the PWA. The previous Design View for the Responsive Starter Store (RSS) remains in Intershop Commerce Management (ICM).

For further information, refer to the [Content Management Center Help](https://docs.intershop.com/iap/olh/cmc/en/index.html).

The Customer Engagement Center helps merchants establish and manage personal contact with their customers. It integrates multiple communication channels for one-to-one interactions and gives customers a quick, easy way to obtain information and get help.

For further information, refer to the [Customer Engagement Center Help](https://docs.intershop.com/iap/olh/cec/en/index.html).

The Sparque Center allows to optimize search functionality by defining redirects and synonyms for your online shop using [Sparque.ai](http://Sparque.ai) as the search tool.

For further information, refer to the [Sparque Center Help](https://docs.intershop.com/iap/olh/sc/en/index.html).

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.