---
id: '8a670ff03887caf01e60b8cb428901a1'
title: 'Concept - Intershop PWA'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/Z30746'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:40.123982+00:00'
---
Angular applications are built for a [static deployment](https://angular.io/guide/deployment) by default.

When running `npm run build`

in any shape or form, the build output is aggregated in the `dist`

folder and the resulting files can be statically served using any HTTP server that is capable of doing that (only a [fallback](https://angular.io/guide/deployment#routed-apps-must-fallback-to-indexhtml) for `index.html`

must be configured).

When the application is served this way, the initial page response for the browser is minimal (`index.html`

with scripts inserted).

The application gets composed and rendered on the client side.

To use that HTTP server, build a container image based on the file `Dockerfile_noSSR`

.

That file contains all the instructions necessary to build the image.

By default, it is instructed to expose port 4200 and does not support https.

Of course, this can have a significant impact on the client side if no efficient rendering power is available.

Search engine crawlers may also not be able to execute JavaScript and may only see the initial minimal response.

This deployment method is suitable for demo servers supplying a fast build chain.

This setup is not recommended for production use.

This setup is also used for the Angular CLI built-in webpack-dev-server and must not be confused with a standard production setup.


To address sophisticated SEO requirements, the [Angular SSR](https://angular.io/guide/ssr) package was introduced.

In a second step in the build process, a server-side application can be built by the Angular CLI after building the client-side application.

The resulting distribution must be executed in a node environment.

The *server.js* executable handles client requests on the server and pre-renders the content of the page, basically executing everything in a *Node.js* environment.

The resulting initial page response to the browser is mainly prepared and can be displayed quickly on the client side while the client-side application is booting up.

With the introduction of the non-destructive [Client Hydration](https://angular.io/guide/hydration) in Angular v17, the server-side rendered application is restored on the client reusing the server-rendered DOM structures, preserving the application state, transferring application data already retrieved by the server, and other processes.

This leads to significant performance improvements.

This method is the default setup for the Intershop PWA.

A `Dockerfile`

is provided for building the [SSR Image](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/g/intershop/intershop-pwa/blob/develop/docs/concepts/pwa-building-blocks.md).

If the Intershop PWA is run with an enabled [Service Worker](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/g/intershop/intershop-pwa/blob/develop/docs/concepts/progressive-web-app.md#service-worker), the SSR process is only triggered on the first visit to the web page.

After that, the service worker causes the application to behave like a simple browser-side application where certain additional caching can lead to an improved client experience.

However, browsers and crawlers that do not support JavaScript will still receive fully pre-rendered page responses from the SSR process.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.