---
id: '8a8cce364c98a42947611d21ca37f003'
title: 'Job'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/294L91'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:40:47.791779+00:00'
---
Name | Replication Task State Synchronization |
|---|---|
Domain | SLDSystem |
Job Dependencies | none |
AcquiredResources | none |
Cartridge | sld_system_app (before 7.3.1), init_operations (from 7.3.1.) |
Pipeline | ReplicationTaskStateSynchronizationJob-Start |
Affected Domain Objects | Replication Tasks |
Affected Tables | REPLICATIONTASK |
Stored Procedure | |
Default State | Enabled |
Is Site Specific | False |
Edit State | Globally Enabled |
Live State | Globally Enabled |
Description | This job determines all replication tasks of the system with state PENDING and updates the state to WAITING if current time reached or exceeds the replication tasks' pre-defined start time. This is necessary because only tasks with state WAITING can be assigned to replication processes. |
Scheduling | Depends on the customer's operational needs. Per default the job is scheduled to run every 10 minutes, starting at 12:30 a.m. |
What Happens Switched Off | Replication tasks with a predefined execution time are not set from PENDING to WAITING and are therefore not visible. Hence they cannot be assigned to replication processes. Affected replication tasks would never be executed. |
Trouble Shooting | |
Comments | A data replication manager can create new replication tasks. He or she may submit a new task for immediate execution (i.e., the replication task's state is set to WAITING and can immediately be assigned to a replication process) or have it executed automatically at a later predefined time (i.e. the replication task's state is set to PENDING). This job determines all replication tasks of the system with state PENDING and updates the state to WAITING if current time reaches or exceeds the replication tasks' predefined start time. This is necessary because only tasks with state WAITING can be assigned to replication processes. |

Product Version | 7.0 |
|---|---|
Product To Version | |
| Status |

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.