---
id: '8ae99797e09568755f5bc05ef2588464'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/25V351'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:39:51.341072+00:00'
---
A **dynamic message** is a marketing tool to encourage the consumer to spend "a little more" money in order to receive some benefit. This benefit can be a discount of the order price, free shipping, or some present.

For example:

The word "dynamic" in dynamic message refers to the fact that the numeric value which replaces the placeholder of the dynamic message is calculated "on the fly" before showing the shopping cart. However, the message is only dynamic for the following two order conditions:

Accordingly, there are two ways to trigger a dynamic message:

However, it is also possible to promote a message for other conditions, but without any variable part.

The form used to configure a dynamic message is invisible after a promotion has been created initially. It will become visible on the Discount Rules tab of a promotion, as soon as one rule condition has been defined. The form shows both triggers, the table of placeholders, and an HTML field for any kind of text.

As mentioned before, the placeholders are only available for **Minimum Order Value** and **Minimum Number of Items** conditions. In order to reference the condition, the condition's UUID is used in the placeholder string.

The format is: **${uuid}**. Before saving the text, it will be scanned for unknown placeholders. If there exists one, an error message is shown.

The dynamic message of the highest ranked promotion which does not apply to the basket is shown on the shopping cart page. It is determined as follows.

However, due to the current implementation in the template, only one - the one of the promotion with highest priority, which does not apply - will be shown in the shopping cart.

Consider a simple discount rule like "Grant a discount of 10% if the order value is more than $100."

However, the promotion framework allows to create more complex promotions coming with a set of rules like, e.g., if step 1 is fullfilled, discount 1 will be granted and if step 2 is fullfilled, discount 2 will be granted, and so on. Accordingly, more than one dynamic message can be defined for a promotion.

For example, we create a promotion **Promotion1** with three rules.

Rule | Dynamic Message Trigger | Dynamic Message |
|---|---|---|
1) Grant 30% off the order value if order is > $300. | $250 | Spend more ... to receive 30% off your order. |
2) Grant 20% off the order value if order is > $200. | $150 | Spend more ... to receive 20% off your order. |
3) Grant 10% off the order value if order is > $100. | $50 | Spend more ... to receive 10% off your order. |

The algorithm to apply a promotion always takes the first rule that matches. Therefore, the order of rules is important to grant different discounts depending on different price ranges. If you change the order and put rule 3 at top of the list, it will always apply as soon as the order total is greater than $100. Even if the order total is greater than $300 rule 1 will still apply, because it matches.

The first rule that matches will be applied even if there is another rule that matches.

The following screenshot shows the shopping cart page, where the first rule of Promotion1 has been applied. It grants 10% off the order. Furthermore, the order total is enough to trigger the dynamic message of the second rule.

In combination with other promotions no promotion message will be shown even if the trigger condition is met.

Assume you have configured two promotions: Promotion_A and Promotion_B.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.