---
id: '8b17ec1d04612c25a4f039ce225d4320'
title: 'Video Tutorial'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/G30090'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:39:34.333812+00:00'
---
This video tutorial introduces the view contexts and shows how to make use of them.

If you do not know yet how to create pages and page layouts, please have a look at the [Video Tutorial - Content Management System (Part 1): How to Create an own Page From Scratch](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1884950642/Video+Tutorial+-+Content+Management+System+Part+1+How+to+Create+an+own+Page+From+Scratch) first.

Catalog and product pages are the biggest part of an online store. It would be an enormous effort to maintain all of them manually. This is the reason why Intershop Commerce Management offers a View Context functionality to manage product- and category-related content.

With view contexts, it is possible to define global fallbacks that are used for all types of categories and products. This means you can define a page layout that can be applied to all pages.

However, it is also possible to define individual pages, for example for a promotion campaign.

In the view context section, there are already some predefined, system-managed view contexts. This is due to the fact that systems need to ensure that pages for the most basic store functions are available.

One of the key features of view contexts are global fallbacks. With these, it is possible to provide fallback pages for different product and category-related objects.

The following page types are covered:

The fallback comes into play when a specific business object is not loaded correctly. However, it can also be used to easily provide page variants to all previously mentioned page types in case you do not want to assign specific content manually.

For the following examples, let's assume we want to start a promotion campaign that will be advertised with banners on certain category pages, family pages and product pages.


This tutorial covers the most important information about adding content to category pages, family pages, and product pages. This includes the following tasks:

First, we want to show how to add a promotional banner to a category page:

In the *Catalogs* section, go to *Catalogs* and click on the *Computers* standard catalog.

In the next step, we want to add a page variant to our newly created category page:

As the template, select *Category Page*.

Info

You will now find yourself on the newly created page variant *Promotion Computers Category Page*. In here, we want to add our promotional banner:

Browsing the storefront, you can now find the promotional banner on the *Computers* category page.

You might have already noticed that configuring a catalog view context will display the promotional banner on all subcategory pages of the catalog. This behavior can be configured on the catalog view itself:

Like this, all subcategories will use the subcategory view context instead of the category view context. This allows to use individual subcategory pages.

Depending on whether you maintain your content at channel level or application level, it may be necessary to adjust the setting at the application level as well.

Now, we want to show how to add a promotional banner to all products in the *Solid State Drives* subcategory:

In the next step, we want to add a page variant to our newly created product page:

You will now find yourself on the newly created page variant *Promotion Product Page SSD*. In here, we want to add our promotional banner.

Browsing the storefront, you can now find the promotional banner on each product page within the product subcategory *Solid State Drives*.

Let's assume we want to advertise the promotion for our SSDs not only on the product pages but on the SSD family page as well. For this purpose, it is possible to use a separate family page view context:

In the next step, we want to add a page variant to our newly created family page:

Click *New* to create a new page variant.

You will now find yourself on the newly created page variant *Promotion Family Page SSD*. In here, we want to add our promotional banner.

Browsing the storefront, you can now find the promotional banner on each family page within the product subcategory *Solid State Drives*.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.