---
id: '8c14bdfa4523bfb8025496b3d310627a'
title: 'Video Tutorial - Promotions Part 1'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/284B96'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:41.930963+00:00'
---
This document replaces the outdated article with the ID *23B366* and the title *Video Tutorials: Promotions with Intershop 7*.

Promotions are an important marketing instrument with the intention to push the sales and to increase the customer satisfaction. A promotion applies to predefined customer segments, products and time periods. Specific discounts like reduced prices, bonus products, free shipping etc. can be offered via a promotion. This video tutorial gives an introduction to the promotion feature in Intershop 7 and shows how to create a new promotion in the Commerce Management application.


Click *New *to create a new promotion.

In newer ICM versions, a new promotion can be created by clicking *New | Customized Promotion*.

Set the promotion to *Active** *by selecting the corresponding checkbox.

In newer ICM versions, the checkbox *Active is* renamed to *Enabled*.

Define the *Priority *by either selecting *Default Priority *or *Specific Priority*.

Click *Show Default Priorities *to get an overview about the recommended settings. The priority defines the order in which the promotions are listed in the web store. The promotion with the highest priority comes first. If there are more promotions with the same priority, their start dates are taken into consideration. The newest promotion comes first. However, if their start dates are also identical, the promotion IDs are relevant which are sorted ascendingly.

Select *free combinable *as *Combination *to be flexible in the presentation of the promotion.

In newer ICM versions, *free combinable** is* renamed to *freely combinable*.

The combination of promotions is a very complex topic. To understand the relation between *free combinable*, *not combinable *and *combinable with the following promotion types*, please refer to [Concept - Promotion Priority and Combination](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1759449372/Concept+-+Promotion+Priority+and+Combination#Concept-PromotionPriorityandCombination-3PromotionCombination).

Define the *Start Date *and the* End Date* of the promotion in the *Activation *section.

The activation period has an influence on other functionalities of a promotion.

Select *Budget Amount *in the *Budget* section and enter $1000.

Users with sessions that started before the promotion budget was exceeded will still be able to get the promotion, even if the budget is already spent.

Select *Take promotion offline when exceeded*.

The promotions will only go offline automatically if this checkbox is checked. Otherwise, it will continue to be active and only the information emails will be sent to the responsible person.

Add the email of the promotion manager under *Send a notification email to* and select *when budget amount is exceeded*.

Click on *New *under *Consumer Groups*.

In newer ICM versions, *Consumer Groups *is renamed to *Customer Segments* and the *New *Button is replaced by an *Assign *button.

Select *Everyone *and click on *Apply*.

In newer ICM versions, the *New *Button is replaced by an *Assign *button.

A promotion can be oriented to one or more target groups. In consumer channels, the target group of a promotion can be a special consumer group, for example, all regular consumers or individually selected consumers that are registered within the consumer channel. Promotions can also be targeted at consumer groups associated with affiliate partners or affiliate partner programs.

Set *Code Reuse per Customer *as well as *Total Reuse per Code *to *unlimited*.

It is also possible to assign promotion code groups by selecting *Use Promotion Code Group(s)*. For further information, please take a look at [Concept - Promotion Codes](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1826506683/Concept+-+Promotion+Codes).

Switch to the tab Discount Rules.

Discount rules determine the benefit offered to the members of the promotion's target group. Each discount rule specifies a condition and an action to be triggered in case the condition has been met. Managing discount rules involves creating (if necessary), editing and deleting discount rules.

* *Select a category, for example, by clicking on *Add via Browse.*

In newer ICM versions, the *Add via Browse** *Button is replaced by an *Assign via Browse** *button.

* *Select *Potted Plants* and click on *Next >>.*

In newer ICM versions, simply select the desired catalogs and/or categories, click on *OK* and continue with step 9.

* *Select *Potted Plants** *and click on *Finish*.

* *Click *Close *to finish the first promotion condition.

In newer ICM versions, this step is no longer necessary.

Select the created promotion conditions and click on *Group*.

Conditions can be grouped with a connection type, such as *AND* or *OR*. This is recommended if some conditions are linked in a manner to trigger a promotion. In our example, 3 products must be in connection to the included category, so they must be grouped with an *AND *condition type.

Click on *Apply *right under the condition.

The structured chart of the relations can be found under *Chart* in a shot form.

Enter the promotion code *REOPENING* and click on *Apply*.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.