---
id: '8c1a0ac7358bbe52dd79fc0582014150'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/310G45'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:36:33.070607+00:00'
---
This document explains the basic concept of organizations of the Intershop Order Management. This document is aimed at business users, project developers, and operators.

[Guide - IOM Basic Business Configuration | Create an Organization Structure](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/47810150495/Guide+-+IOM+Basic+Business+Configuration#Create-an-Organization-Structure)

[Overview - IOM Database Documentation](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1826514704) (`OrganizationDO`

)

An organization is a single tree structure on shops and suppliers to manage dedicated tasks easily, for example user and permission management or stock handling.

Organizations are used to:

present/map organizations' structures within the IOM

manage user allocation and permission handling

manage hierarchical stock visibility

The organizations must observe the following rules:

There can be organizations without a shop or supplier

Each shop instance is mapped to one organization instance

Each supplier instance is mapped to one organization instance

A supplier can only have another supplier as a child

A shop can only have another shop as a child

Sub-trees defined in `SupplierDO`

or `ShopDO`

also exist in the organization tree

The IOM initial database dumps come with predefined/required organizations:

**OmsSystem** is the required root organization (internal id=1)

**OMS internal Supplier** is a **required **dummy supplier that is used before order positions get assigned to real suppliers. **Do not modify it!**

There must be `Shop2SupplierDO`

mapping between all real shops and this internal supplier.

**OMS internal Shop** is an internal shop that is used in a few places for default shop assignments,**but it may get removed in a future version. Do not consider it.**

**All Shops** is a predefined shop that was originally meant as a placeholder to assign users/roles automatically to all existing and future shops.**You should not consider or use it as it will probably be removed in a future version.**

**All Supplier **is a predefined supplier similar to the “All Shops”.**You should not consider or use it as it will probably be removed in a future version.**

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.