---
id: '8cd8511fbcbb469f9ca670996d20a7e2'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/45M433'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:30:16.255801+00:00'
---
This document describes different ways to get auto-suggestions in the storefront search box. It describes the necessary steps to configure and create the specific search indexes and gives technical background on how the suggestions are retrieved. The index types are implemented within the Solr Search Adapter Cartridge.

The available search index services that provide the different types of search indexes are managed services. You can enable the services for the organization in Intershop Organization Management.

To use the enabled search service, it is necessary to create an appropriate service configuration in the context of the organization, a channel or an application respectively. The required location of the service depends mainly on the location of the business objects you want to build the search indexes for. For example: If products are edited in the channel, the search service configuration should be located in the channel. For content that is application-specific, the search service configuration must be located in the application.

Several search index services are available for generating suggestions for the user. These services behave in different ways.

The standard product search index type already includes suggest functionality based on the data that is indexed in that index. The current index is selected by the current request locale and its online flag. The index configuration is also checked for any attributes in the configuration that have a custom `AutoSuggest`

value and a `true`

value.

... <attribute> <custom-values> <custom-value name="AutoSuggest" type="string"> <value>true</value> </custom-value> </custom-values> <name>ManufacturerName</name> <dataProviderName>ProductPO</dataProviderName> <description>The manufacturer name</description> ... </attribute>

The search index attributes that are used for suggest can be managed in Intershop Commerce Management on the *Auto Suggest* tab.

All data from the index attributes marked for *Auto Suggest* is copied to a `hidden _suggest`

field in the index during indexing. The suggest creates a query for the contents of the `_suggest`

field, prefixed by the letters that the user has typed.

When a provided suggest result is selected in the frontend, a search is triggered using the suggested term. Therefore, the index attributes used for auto-suggest are typically a subset of the index attributes used for search.

The maximum count of suggestions is set by the `maxAutoSuggestResults`

parameter in the `ISSearchBox`

ISML-module. That parameter is set in the *Header.isml* *(app_sf_responsive_cm)* template to a default value of `10`

.

`SFProductSearchSuggest`

is an alternative implementation of auto suggest. It uses a separate index, but the data is retrieved from the `SFProductSearch`

product index.

The configuration for the type relies on custom value attributes configured either in the index itself or in the underlying product index.

The custom values in the suggest index at search index configuration level can configure custom values with the `SuggestType_`

prefix followed by a type.

The values are attribute names of the underlying product index. Available types are `category`

, `brand`

, `product`

, and `content`

. If an attribute is marked as auto suggest and the type cannot be determined, it is set to `unspecified`

.

<searchIndexConfiguration> ... <custom-values> <custom-value name="SuggestType_category" type="string"> <value>CategoryNameLevel0</value> <value>CategoryNameLevel1</value> </custom-value> <custom-value name="SuggestType_product" type="string"> <value>name</value> </custom-value> </custom-values> </searchIndexConfiguration>

You can also configure the type `custom-values`

in the suggested index custom attribute `SuggestType`

. The value is an available suggest type (see above).

... <attribute> <custom-values> <custom-value name="SuggestType" type="string"> <value>brand</value> </custom-value> <name>ManufacturerName</name> ... </attribute> ...

The following tables illustrate the content of the participating indexes:

Product Index Data: Each row represents a product.

Category Display Name | Brand | Product Name | Content |
|---|---|---|---|
Category 1 | Brand 1 | Name 1 | Term |
Category 1 | Brand 2 | Name 2 | Term |
Category 2 | Brand 1 | Name 3 | Term |

The suggest index build processes the configured index attributes for the suggest types, reads the data from the product index and writes the results to the suggest index.

Product Suggest Index Data: Each row represents a potential suggestion.

QueryTerm | Type | HitCount | FieldName |
|---|---|---|---|
Category 1 | category | 2 | Category Display Name |
Category 2 | category | 1 | Category Display Name |
Brand 1 | brand | 2 | Brand |
Brand 2 | brand | 1 | Brand |
Name 1 | product | 1 | Product Name |
Name 2 | product | 1 | Product Name |
Name 3 | product | 1 | Product Name |
Term | content | 3 | Product Name |

The suggest query uses a wildcard search on the `QueryTerm`

index attribute.

If an index of type `SFProductSearchSuggest`

is online for the current request locale, it disables the suggest from `SFProductSearch`

index.

The Index Type is also an index of data that is collected from other indexes. In addition to the `SFProductSearchSuggest`

index, it can also collect data from the `SFContentSearch`

index and store direct references to products, categories and content pages.

The configuration is controlled by specifying the index attributes of the underlying indexes (`SFProductSearch`

or `SFContentSearch`

) as custom values in the *ISH-Config.xml* of the `SFObjectSuggestSearch`

together with marking the attribute as auto suggest in the underlying index.

The custom values of the `ObjectSuggestType_<type>`

attribute determine the set of attributes that are collectible, and the index configuration auto suggest will determine the collected attributes from that configured set.

The suggest query uses a wildcard search in the `QueryTerm`

index attribute prefixed with the user-entered terms. It also groups the result by the `Type`

index attribute to get results of each type. The result size per group is set to 5 by the Solr `group.limit`

parameter. The suggest result generates direct links to product, category or content pages. For the suggest type `brand`

, it generates a search with the suggested term.

`SFObjectSuggestSearch`

is online for the current request locale, it disables the suggest from `SFProductSearchSuggest`

or `SFProductSearch`

indexes. The category suggestions are generated from the values that are indexed in the `CategoryNameLevel<X>`

index attributes. The category reference is derived from the contents of the `CategoryUUIDLevelMulti`

index attribute. The values of the `CategoryNameLevel<X>`

index attributes are the category display names of the default category assignment of the product. Thus, category suggestions are generated for the default categories to which products are assigned.

The product suggestions that are indexed in the suggest index are collected from the `SFProductSearch`

index. The reference is based on the value of the `SKU`

(the first value if it is a multiple value) or as a fallback of the `sku`

index attribute. The default configuration uses the `name`

index attribute to build suggestions based on the product display names.

Info

Solr Adapter Version 3.6.1:

Additional source attribute values that are included in the `ObjectSuggestType_product`

configuration are concatenated and indexed in the `QueryTerm`

index attribute. For example: If the SKU is included in that configuration, products are suggested when you start typing an SKU.

The content suggestions are collected from the `SFContentSearch`

index. The content references are generated from the index attribute `PageletEntryPointID`

and the query term values are taken from the `title`

(hard-coded) attribute. No configuration of the underlying content index is necessary.

The brand suggestions are collected from the `ManufacturerName`

index attribute of the `SFProductSearch`

index.

There is no default configuration for search suggestions. To use existing index attributes as suggestions for search, you may add an additional attribute to the suggest index and select the data provider `search`

. An `ObjectSuggestType_<type>`

custom value has to be added by editing the configuration file where the custom values list the index attributes of the product index that you want to use as search suggestions. The default storefront template *SuggestResult.isml* delivered with ICM does not display suggestions of type search. A search section must be added to the template to render results for the search suggestions, as shown in the following example file: [ app_sf_responsive:inc/search/SuggestResult.isml](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Deliver/DOC/45M433/SuggestResult.isml).

The following screenshot shows an example of the search configuration attribute of the object suggest index with the `ObjectSuggestType_search`

value and the associated index attribute `SupplierName`

:

<attribute> <custom-values> <custom-value name="ObjectSuggestType_search" type="string"> <value>SupplierName</value> </custom-value> <custom-value name="SpellCheck" type="string"> <value>false</value> </custom-value> <custom-value name="AutoSuggest" type="string"> <value>false</value> </custom-value> </custom-values> <dataProviderName>search</dataProviderName> <weight>100</weight> <sortable>false</sortable> <labelAsc></labelAsc> <labelDesc></labelDesc> <description></description> <name>searches</name> <displayName>Search Suggestions</displayName> <ID>10</ID> <dataType>0</dataType> <unit></unit> <searchable>false</searchable> <standard>false</standard> </attribute>

The suggest collector data provider only supports single-valued index attributes. (prior to Solr Cloud Adapter 3.6.1 see below)

Info

Solr Adapter Version 3.6.1: The suggest collector supports using index attributes that have multiple values and it is made possible to configure the related source attribute of the underlying data index be the custom value `SourceAttributeNames`

.

ICM 7.10.40.5: The configuration of multiple source index attributes can be made in the back office by selecting source attributes.

By clicking the *Select* button, the next page shows all the index attributes of the product index. By selecting multiple index attributes, the values of these attributes are processed in the object suggest index. Be careful when selecting attributes that have many unique values. All these values will create a separate document in the object suggest index. For the search suggestions, the selected attributes should also be marked as searchable in the product index or be part of a copy index attribute that is searchable, otherwise no products will be found when the suggestion is selected.

| SFProductSearch | SFProductSearchSuggest | SFObjectSuggestSearch |
|---|---|---|
Simple Configuration No additional index builds | Prefix and infix results Additional type categorization | Prefix and infix results Direct links to products, categories and content Content index suggestions included |
Restricted to provide search term suggestions Only prefix and lowercase matches | Dependent to other index builds Manual configuration necessary | A limited hard-coded set of supported attributes Dependency to other indexes Slower indexing time |

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.