---
id: '8ce4934b8f049d99b6e9fab9caf15ec5'
title: 'Managing Product Sharing to Channels'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/S32352'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:18.965352+00:00'
---
# Managing Product Sharing to Channels

Managing channel assignments involves creating and removing product sharing relations.

## Enabling Product Sharing to a Channel

-
Select the intended management context from the context selection box (organization or partner channel), then select Catalogs | Outbound Product Sharing.
This opens the product sharing manager.
-
In the Channels section, click New.
This opens the Add Channel dialog, displaying a list of channels that are currently not selected as product sharing targets.
-
Select the intended channel(s).
To select a channel for product sharing, mark the checkbox next to the intended channel.
-
Click OK.
The sharing relation is established, i.e., the selected channels can now share master products. For details about managing product assignments, see
[Managing Product Assignments](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/task_managing_product_assignments.html).

## Disabling Product Sharing to a Channel

-
Select the intended management context from the context selection box (organization or partner channel), then select Catalogs | Outbound Product Sharing.
This opens the product sharing manager.
-
In the Channels section, select the channel(s) to be unassigned from product sharing.
To remove individual channels, select the corresponding checkboxes. To remove all channels, click Select All in the table header.
-
Click Delete, then OK to confirm the deletion.
The selected sharing relations are deleted, i.e., the selected channels do not longer share master products.

Note:

Removing a sharing relation established with a channel removes the shared products from the channel. Modifications applied to the shared products are maintained, i.e., re-establishing the sharing relation with the same products automatically restores previous modifications.