---
id: '8da24cf7b3d41e8a1d3528809061666e'
title: 'Overview'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/29222Z'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:20.087388+00:00'
---
The present page serves as an overview for the topic. All available documents for the topic can be found here.

The current page lists available search service adapters.

This table gives an overview of the compatibility of the various components. Please see the release notes of the adapters for detailed version information.

|
|
|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
4 | 7.9 | 7.10.15.2 | - | Solr4 is part of ICM, there is no separate adapter needed. | OUT OF SUPPORT |
4 | 7.10.16.6 | 7.10.30.2 | Solr4 Adapter | Solr4 is not part of ICM anymore since 7.10.16.6. Thus, Solr4 or SolrCloud adapter is needed. Solr4 is not compatible with ICM 7.10.31.2+ anymore, see also | OUT OF SUPPORT |
6 | 7.9 | Last tested on 7.10.9 It has not been tested for newer versions but may still work until 7.10.30.2. | SolrCloud Adapter 1 | Adapter for SolrCloud 6 See | OUT OF SUPPORT |
8 | 7.10.10 | 7.10.30.2 | SolrCloud Adapter 2 | Adapter for SolrCloud 8 See | OUT OF SUPPORT |
8 | 7.10.31.2 | 7.10.x | SolrCloud Adapter 3 | Adapter for SolrCloud 8 Includes the necessary adaptions for the Tomcat 9 update of ICM ( | SUPPORTED |
8 | 11 | 11 | SolrCloud Adapter 4 | Adapter for SolrCloud 8 and ICM 11 | SUPPORTED |
8 | 12 | SolrCloud Adapter 5 | Adapter for SolrCloud 8 and ICM 12+ | SUPPORTED |

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.