---
id: '8dcff8efbc3a45304d6379b9f70a4130'
title: 'Wireframes'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3138U8'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:30.960548+00:00'
---
Introduction

The wireframes listed here contain interaction designs for storefront pages. In particular, this involves the functionalities of the PayPal Service Connector and its implementation in the corresponding Blueprint Store of the Intershop e-commerce platform. Full documentation of the Intershop reference application can be found in the wireframes of the corresponding version of the Intershop Progressive Web App.

Click the link in the [Wireframes](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Wireframes-PayPalServiceConnector-Wireframes) section to open the prototype with your browser. From there you can navigate directly to other pages using the sitemap.

There are features on some pages which are interactive. Use the 2nd icon next to the Axure logo and select the option "Show Hotspots".

The design is responsive in the same way the starter store is.

The breakpoints are:

To see the different layouts, you can resize your browser, or you can use the drop-down to switch between the views.

The prototype is described with page and widget notes. Use the 1st icon to show the documentation.

We value your feedback!

Feel free to send your thoughts via e-mail to: [UserExperience2@intershop.de](mailto:UserExperience2@intershop.de).

| PayPal Service Connector Version | Valid for ICM Version | Valid for Intershop PWA Version | Link |
|---|---|---|---|
| 8.1.0 | ICM 12.0+ | 5.2.0+ |

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.