---
id: '8de3c25ae828d451a1487a9a8d30bf7a'
title: 'Guide - Intershop PWA'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/30X829'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:35.551857+00:00'
---
The PWA uses [ESLint](https://eslint.org) for static code analysis and to enforce best practices.

In order to use ESLint with Angular, we use the [ typescript-eslint](https://typescript-eslint.io) and

`angular-eslint`

The PWA's ruleset is configured in [ .eslintrc.json](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/develop/.eslintrc.json) and includes base rulesets to extend from, plugins with additional rules as well as a configuration for our custom rules.

To read more about the Intershop PWA's custom rules, see [Custom ESLint rules](https://knowledge.intershop.com#custom-eslint-rules).

An ESLint rule configuration is a key-value-pair of a `rules`

object in `.eslintrc.json`

.

There are separate rulesets for `typescript`

and `html`

files.

Consider the following example:

```
"@angular-eslint/component-selector": [
"error",
{
"type": "element",
"prefix": ["ish"],
"style": "kebab-case"
}
],
```

The key specifies the rule to configure, in this case `@angular-eslint/component-selector`

.

The value specifies a rule's options and can be structured in two different ways:

`error`

, `warn`

or `off`

. This simply enables or disables the rule and sets a severity level.`error`

or `warn`

). The following entries are rule-specific configuration and will be passed to the rule.Refer to the relevant documentation of the standard ESLint ruleset, various plugins or our custom rules to learn more about what each rule does and how to configure them.

For more information on how to configure every aspect of ESLint, refer to the extensive documentation of [ESLint](https://eslint.org) as well as [ typescript-eslint](https://typescript-eslint.io) and

`angular-eslint`

To keep the codebase clean, easily maintainable and functional, the Intershop PWA provides a large number of custom ESLint rules.

These rules are located in the `eslint-rules`

project.

The custom rules are developed separately from the main source code, which uses the compiled rules as a local developer dependency in its `package.json`

.

To work with and develop new custom ESLint rules, follow these steps:

`ng g eslint-rule`

(alias `er`

). This generates a new rule file at `eslint-rules/src/rules`

and a test file at `eslint-rules/tests`

.`helpers.ts`

to reduce repetition.`RuleTester`

API that is used in tests. Use `npm run test:eslint-rules`

to execute your tests.`eslint-rules`

project with your changes using `npm run build:eslint-rules`

. The resulting JavaScript files will be located in the `eslint-rules/dist`

folder. A generated `index.ts`

exports the rules to be consumed in the `.eslintrc.json`

configuration file.`.eslintrc.json`

`ESLint: Restart ESLint server`

command to see your new configuration applied in VSCode. You can access the command via the editor commands (default keybinding: `ctrl + shift + p`

).The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.