---
id: '8e52bbdfff83566fdee66a934fb0bc70'
title: 'Job'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/29496N'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:30.939856+00:00'
---
Name | Update Search Indexes | ||||||||||||
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Domain | SLDSystem | ||||||||||||
Job Dependencies | Update Product Assignments - if dynamic product binding is used | ||||||||||||
AcquiredResources | SearchIndexes (System Domain) | ||||||||||||
Cartridge | sld_system_app | ||||||||||||
Pipeline | MaintainSearchIndexes-Update | ||||||||||||
Affected Domain Objects | - | ||||||||||||
Affected Tables | - | ||||||||||||
Stored Procedure | - | ||||||||||||
Default State | Disabled | ||||||||||||
Is Site Specific | False | ||||||||||||
Edit State | Globally Enabled | ||||||||||||
Live State | Globally Enabled | ||||||||||||
| Server Group | JOB | ||||||||||||
Description | Updates all search indexes for objects that have been changed after the Restriction Search indexes are updated only for domains that are in the "Live" status. All others remain untouched. | ||||||||||||
Scheduling | Schedule after some data was updated in the channel, for example by other schedules. | ||||||||||||
What Happens Switched Off | |||||||||||||
Trouble Shooting | |||||||||||||
Comments | Update or remove all products that have been changed after the The indexes can be built in parallel with a configurable number of threads and batch size. IS7.2 Rebuilds the indexes in case of inconsistent index configuration. IS7.4
Use this pipeline to build dedicated process chains. |

Product Version | 7.0 |
|---|---|
Product To Version | |
| Status |

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.