---
id: '8e9f7252eb70a649a092492ee9bd21db'
title: 'Announcement - Action Required'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/309P31'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:21.240793+00:00'
---
On June 22, 2023, the public JCenter was moved. Apparently, some libraries got lost during the move. This also affects libraries used for the Intershop build and deployment process, meaning that some of the libraries used are no longer available in the public JCenter repository and therefore error messages such as the following occur:

FAILURE: Build failed with an exception. * What went wrong: Could not resolve all dependencies for configuration 'classpath'. > Could not find com.intershop.gradle.repoconfig:repoconfig-gradle-plugin:3.3.0. Searched in the following locations: https://jcenter.bintray.com/com/intershop/gradle/repoconfig/repoconfig-gradle-plugin/3.3.0/repoconfig-gradle-plugin-3.3.0.pom https://jcenter.bintray.com/com/intershop/gradle/repoconfig/repoconfig-gradle-plugin/3.3.0/repoconfig-gradle-plugin-3.3.0.jar Required by: unspecified:unspecified:unspecified

This article describes how to solve this issue.

[Cookbook - Setup CI Infrastructure | Recipe: Create Sources From Intershop Templates](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822571078/Cookbook+-+Setup+CI+Infrastructure#TemplateSources)

[Cookbook - Setup CI Infrastructure | Recipe: Setup CI Build for Corporate Artifacts](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822571078/Cookbook+-+Setup+CI+Infrastructure#ProjectArtifacts)

[Video Tutorial - Prepare Your Artifact Repository Server (valid to 7.10)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1859662077/Video+Tutorial+-+Prepare+Your+Artifact+Repository+Server+valid+to+7.10)

To solve this issue, it is necessary to do some adjustments to the corporate Gradle distribution and the ICM project as well as adding a new proxy repository to the artifact repository server. Please follow the steps below.

Please note that a new version of the *repoconfig-gradle-plugin* (RELEASE 3.3.3) is available (as of June 27), which is more repository-independently due to its additional reference to the mavenCentral repository. The article refers to release 3.3.2, which can still be used to solve the issue, but does not yet provide complete independence from JCenter.

**Platform Customers** can skip this step.

Please add the PluginPortal repository to the artifact repository server (e.g., Nexus) and add the new PluginPortal Proxy Repository to the Components Group.

Name | ID | Repository Type | Remote Storage Location | Format |
|---|---|---|---|---|
PluginPortal | pluginPortal | Proxy | Maven2 |

Navigate to the corporate Gradle distribution root project (corporate-distribution) and open the *src/init.d/intershop-init.gradle* file.

To get the source corporate-distribution root project, check out the sources of the corporate-distribution root project from your VCS (*<sources>/devops/gradle/corporate-distribution*) to a folder named *corporate-distribution,* or follow the steps described in [Cookbook - Setup CI Infrastructure | Recipe: Create Sources From Intershop Templates](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822571078/Cookbook+-+Setup+CI+Infrastructure#TemplateSources).

**Platform Customers** can find the source corporate-distribution Repo in their Azure DevOps project.

Apply the following changes to the *intershop-init.gradle* file:

Original:

... initscript { repositories { jcenter() } dependencies { //Repository configuration - provided by Intershop classpath 'com.intershop.gradle.repoconfig:repoconfig-gradle-plugin:3.3.0' } } ...

New:

... initscript { repositories { mavenCentral() } dependencies { //Repository configuration - provided by Intershop classpath 'com.intershop.gradle.repoconfig:repoconfig-gradle-plugin:3.3.3' } } ...

Update the plugin `com.intershop.gradle.scm:scmversion-gradle-plugin`

to the latest version `2.7.5`

and the gradle-release-plugins to the version `3.7.3`

.

Additional note for the SCM version plugin: We noticed an issue with the version calculation when using version `2.7.4`

. Therefore, please use version `2.7.5`

.

*<corporate-distribution>/build.gradle*

Original:

plugins { ... id 'com.intershop.gradle.scmversion' version '2.3.5' id 'com.intershop.gradle.simplepublish-configuration' version '3.5.2' ...

New:

plugins { ... id 'com.intershop.gradle.scmversion' version '2.7.5' //id 'com.intershop.gradle.artifactorypublish-configuration' version '3.7.3' id 'com.intershop.gradle.simplepublish-configuration' version '3.7.3' ...

**Platform Customers:** Please use the Azure Pipeline for this task. Please do not forget to increase the version number (from '2.0.0' to e.g., '3.0.0') in the *azure-pipelines.yml* file.

The general steps to publish a new release of the corporate Gradle distribution are described in the following recipe: [Cookbook - Setup CI Infrastructure | Recipe: Setup CI Build for Corporate Artifacts](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822571078/Cookbook+-+Setup+CI+Infrastructure#ProjectArtifacts)

The new release of the corporate Gradle distribution needs to be configured in the project for the Gradle wrapper in '*gradle/wrapper/gradle-wrapper.properties*'.

*<root-project>/gradle/wrapper/gradle-wrapper.properties*

distributionUrl=<NEW_CORPORATE_GRADLE_DISTRIBUTION_RELEASE_ZIP_REPOSITORY_PATH>

In the ICM root project, it is necessary to update and add some plugins.

*<root-project>/build.gradle*

... buildscript { dependencies { //bintray dependencies classpath 'com.intershop.gradle.scm:scmversion-gradle-plugin:2.7.5' classpath 'com.intershop.gradle.publish:gradle-release-plugins:3.7.3' classpath 'com.intershop.gradle.sonarqube:sonarqube-gradle-plugin:2.1.3' classpath 'com.intershop.gradle.versionrecommender:versionrecommender-gradle-plugin:1.3.8' classpath 'com.intershop.gradle.repoconfig:repoconfig-gradle-plugin:3.3.3' classpath 'com.intershop.gradle.resourcelist:resourcelist-gradle-plugin:2.2.0' classpath 'com.intershop.gradle.jaxb:jaxb-gradle-plugin:2.1.0' classpath 'com.intershop.gradle.javacc:javacc-gradle-plugin:2.1.0' classpath 'com.intershop.gradle.isml:isml-gradle-plugin:1.1.0' classpath 'com.intershop.gradle.wsdl:wsdl-gradle-plugin:1.2.0' ...

Additional note for the SonarQube plugin: Updating the plugin is only necessary for projects using an old SonarQube server (version < 9.X)! In other projects not using SonarQube, the plugin and the configuration can be removed!

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.