---
id: '8f6d81294e7f07438b3ac7e19ef845fd'
title: 'Overview'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/27P833'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:36:23.343268+00:00'
---
The present page serves as an overview for the topic. All available documents for the topic can be found here.

The Payment Service Framework and API facilitates seamless integration with third-party payment providers. Payment methods are managed and configured via the Managed Service Framework.

Intershop offers integrated abstract payment methods that do not require an external service, such as ISH_INVOICE and ISH_PAY_IN_ADVANCE, along with the ISH Demo Payment cartridge. Furthermore, a range of payment connectors for third-party payment providers is available.

Additional payment connectors can also be developed as part of a project customization.

A payment service provider (PSP) is a company that offers merchants online services for accepting electronic payments by a variety of payment methods including credit card, bank-based payments such as direct debit, bank transfer, and real-time bank transfer based on online banking.

Typically, a PSP can connect to multiple acquiring banks, card and payment networks. In many cases the PSP will fully manage these technical connections, relationships with the external network, and bank accounts. This makes the merchant less dependent on financial institutions and free from the task of establishing these connections directly - especially when operating internationally.

A payment service provider is the business partner who handles the financial transactions in case, for example, a credit card will be offered as payment method. The partner is involved in the process of card authorization and capture.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.