---
id: '91dea8b75884837418969d08b9f838b9'
title: 'Reference'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2771N8'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:40:11.316906+00:00'
---
ISML tags define commands that describe how Intershop 7 should embed dynamic data into a page, and how to format this data together with regular HTML code.

An ISML tag has a specific name that always starts with the prefix `IS`

, such as `<isprint>`

or `<isset>`

. A tag can have several attributes to control its behavior. ISML tags and their attribute names are case insensitive. However, the values of attributes are often case sensitive.

See [ISML Tags](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-ISMLTags-tags) for a complete reference of standard ISML tags.

| Title | Product Version | Product To Version | Short Description |
|---|---|---|---|
|

6.5

defines templates for binary pipeline output

6.5

child element of ISLOOP that terminates loop

6.5

defines time period of a storefront page in the cache

6.5

deletes page cache according to keyword or object

6.5

generates comments not visible in the storefront

6.5

modifies the HTTP header of the generated output stream sent to the browser or e-mail client

6.5

sets a cookie

6.5

creates conditional ISML code

6.5

creates conditional ISML code

6.5

declares a file to be processed when using <isfilebundle> tag

7.10

bundles small source files

6.5

7.9

bundles small source files

7.4

use instead of the HTML <FORM> tag

6.5

creates conditional ISML code

6.5

includes content of a template in another template

6.5

list iterable data (e.g.: categories, products, shipping, payment methods) on a webpage

6.5

declares custom tags in templates

6.5

proceeds to the next element in an iterator <ISLOOP>

The loop is **not** started with the next element, instead the current iteration is continued using the next element.

6.5

calls a pipeline

6.5

defines placeholders in a template

6.5

marks content within an ISML template that will be aggregated and moved to the spots by the Web Adapter post-processing

6.5

outputs the results of ISML expressions and template variables

6.5

redirects the browser to a specified URL

6.5

renders files of file bundle

6.5

implements drop-down list boxes in an HTML form; replaces the HTML tag <SELECT> and its supporting tags

6.5

can be used to define and set a user-defined variable

6.5

used as a placeholder for localized text strings that can be provided by sites and cartridges

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.