---
id: '921014e7a92c75e1439f47147b98c399'
title: 'Feature List'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2975V1'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:02.159461+00:00'
---
This document lists all features of the Intershop Customer Engagement Center (CEC).

| Feature Name | Feature Description |
|---|---|
Customer search | A customer search can be performed in one channel or across all channels of the organization for which the agent is logged in. The search can be processed as a simple or advanced search. A customer can be selected for further service actions. |
Simple search | The simple search requires at least three characters and searches in e-mail addresses, customer numbers, and last names without further specification. |
| Customer overview | Profile and order information are shown in the application. |
Order history | The customer's most recent orders are displayed in a list sorted by order number in descending order. |
Order details | An order from the order history can be opened to show detail information. |
Customer information | The customer information depends on the customer type. For individual customers, all stored addresses are displayed along with the general profile data. For business customers, company information is displayed in addition to the profile data. |
| Coupons | Coupons represent promotion codes that entitle customers to benefit from a specific promotion. The call center agent can select a promotion from a list of available promotions and generate a promotion code for the customer. The agent can submit the generated code to the customer via e-mail. Call center agents can also apply codes to a customer's cart. |
| Quick order | Quick order allows for creating an order on behalf of the customer on a single page optimized for efficient order entry. |
Shopping cart | Call center agents can add products directly by entering the product ID. Entering the product ID of a variation master adds its default variation to the cart. The cart is created when the first product is added. The agent can edit the quantity or remove the line items from the cart. |
Product search | Products can be found by specifying the product ID or the product name within a search form. A wildcard operator (*) can be used to search for partial IDs or names. The search result is returned as a list of products, including any variation products. Any product from this list can be added to the cart. |
Addresses | The default shipping and invoice addresses are automatically selected for the cart. If further addresses are stored in the customer's profile, these can be selected. In addition, new addresses can be created and saved in the profile. |
Payment method | The call center agent can select one of the available payment methods. Currently, the Customer Engagement Center supports the following payment methods, provided they are configured in Intershop Commerce Management: invoice, direct debit transfer, and cash on delivery. New bank connection details for the payment method direct debit transfer can be added and stored in the customer account. |
Shipping method | The eligible shipping methods depend on the product configurations in Intershop Commerce Management and the selected shipping address. When the cart is updated, the list of selectable shipping methods for each line item is also updated. |
Take over cart | Existing carts of the selected customer can be taken over by the agent and processed in the same way as new ones created by the agent. The call center agent has two options to take over the cart:
All changes are visible to a customer who is online and logged in after refreshing the browser tab. The customer has the opportunity to review the modified cart in the storefront and finally place the order. |
Place order | Once all the parameters for the order have been specified, the agent can place the order on behalf of the customer. |
Impersonate | The call center agent can start an "impersonate" storefront session. This means that the agent logs in to the storefront using the customer's credentials. The catalogs and products, prices, promotions, content, etc. are displayed to the agent in the same way they are to the customer. |

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.