---
id: '935432a8d80d116184731bc07112485a'
title: 'Exporting Promotion Code Groups'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32Z595'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:18.523461+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/32Z595

# Exporting Promotion Code Groups

To export and download promotion code groups to an XML file:
-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Marketing | Import & Export.
This displays the Promotion Import & Export manager.

-
In the Promotion Code Groups (XML) section, click Export.
This opens the Promotion Code Group Selection page.

-
Select the promotion code group(s) to be exported, then click Next.
Use the search option to restrict the set of promotion code groups. Use the checkboxes to select individual promotion code group(s). Clicking Next opens the Configure Export page.

-
Configure the export options, then click Export.
-
Choose whether to export the entire search result or the selected promotion code groups only.
-
Provide a name for the export file including the file extension (*.xml).

Clicking Export immediately starts the export process. The Import & Export Status dialog is displayed.

-
Download the export file.

## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.