---
id: '93fba1ea0b855b54d0cda681639b5428'
title: 'Public Release Notes - Gradle Tools'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2618Y7'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:49.867089+00:00'
---
Note

This Gradle Tools version are included in Intershop 7 version 7.5.2. It can also be used along with all Intershop 7 versions 7.4.6.1 - 7.5.x.

This Gradle Tools version is based on [Gradle 2.3](http://www.gradle.org/docs/2.1/release-notes.html).

Warning

**Verify Your Existing Projects**

If you already have an environment for developing CI-based Intershop releases, please check your existing projects' *gradle.properties* files. If they contain properties like

filter.com.intershop.build.set.cartridge-plugins=2.+ filter.com.intershop.build.set.extension-plugins=2.+ version.com.intershop.deployment-bootstrap=2.+

then mere importing of the new Gradle Tools 2.3 delivery may break your existing builds. Please change those properties to point to a more specific version `2.0.+`

or `2.1.+`

accordingly.

To use Gradle Tools version 2.3 with Intershop 7 version 7.4.6.1 to 7.5.1, perform the following steps to migrate your environment:

`createCorporateConfiguration`

and `createCorporateDistribution`

.`distributionUrl`

in In your *gradle.properties* files, change the following properties if existent:

filter.com.intershop.build.set.cartridge-plugins=2.3.+ filter.com.intershop.build.set.extension-plugins=2.3.+ version.com.intershop.deployment-bootstrap=2.3.+

`'com.intershop:deployment-bootstrap:2.3.+'`

.Intershop Gradle Tools 2.3 are based on Gradle 2.3. The previous version 2.1 was based on Gradle 2.1.

See Gradle's own release notes for changes:

Note

**Incubating Feature**

This feature is incubating and may change in future versions of Gradle Tools. This allows Intershop to incorporate invaluable feedback until the feature is completed, which will be announced in a future release note.

We introduced a new way for cartridges of dealing with dependencies to third-party libraries using Gradle-based dependency management. This approach can be used with all Intershop 7 CI releases, given that you are using Gradle Tools 2.3 or later.

See [Cookbook - Gradle Build Tools (Using Third-party Libraries in a Cartridge)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1783302828/Cookbook+-+Gradle+Build+Tools#Cookbook-GradleBuildTools-Libs) for further documentation on how to use this feature.

Gradle Tools 2.3 introduces the functionality to run integration tests during the assembly build, see [Concept - Gradle Assembly Tools](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1788153188/Concept+-+Gradle+Assembly+Tools#Concept-GradleAssemblyTools-IntegTests) for details.

**Problem**

It was not possible to integrate JaCoCo in the SonarQube Analysis. It was also not possible to send the JUnit result files to SonarQube during the analysis.

**Workaround**

There was no workaround.

**Solution**

JUnit and JaCoCo result files are included in the SonarQube analysis, if this kind of files are available.

`webserver`

and `solr`

**Problem**

The database dump is deployed for those host types, that include the local directory. This is not useful for the `webserver`

or `solr`

hosts.

**Workaround**

Add the following snippet to your assembly deployment logic:

deployment { files { databaseDump { if (!(deploymentBootstrap?.hostType?.hostType?.name in ['appserver', 'all'])) exclude { true } } } }

**Solution**

Starting with Gradle Tools 2.3, the dump file will only be deployed for host types `appserver`

and `all`

by default.

When using custom host types, you can explicitly configure deployment of the dump file in the deployment DSL:

database { deployDump = true }

**Problem**

When executing the post-install script *installServices.bat* with administrator privileges, the following errors occur:

`Could not create service Enfinity_AppServer1, check C:\eserver1\local\bin\isservice.exe Enfinity_AppServer1 \""C:\eserver1\local\bin\nodemanager.bat -win32service -background\install.log`


`[...]`


`Could not create service Enfinity_ApacheWebServer1, check C:\eserver1\local\httpd\bin\httpd.exe -k runservice -n Enfinity_ApacheWebServer1 -f C:\eserver1\local\httpd\conf\install.log`


**Workaround**

Create the services manually with the following commands:

`sc create Enfinity_AppServer`**1** binPath= "**C:\eserver1**\local\bin\isservice.exe Enfinity_AppServer**1** \"C:\eserver1\local\bin\nodemanager.bat -win32service -background\"" displayname= "INTERSHOP Application Server (**1**)" obj= ".\**username**" password= "**password**" start= demand

`sc create Enfinity_ApacheWebServer`**1** binPath= "**C:\eserver1**\local\httpd\bin\httpd.exe -k runservice -n Enfinity_ApacheWebServer**1** -f **C:\eserver1**\local\httpd\conf\httpd.conf" displayname= "INTERSHOP HTTP Server (**1**)" obj= ".\**username**" password= "**password**

" start= auto

Replace the highlighted parts accordingly.

**Solution**

The problems are fixed in Gradle Tools 2.3.

`all`

Does Not Inherit includeJavadoc Flag**Problem**

When deploying the host type `all`

with environment `development`

, Javadoc is not deployed.

**Workaround**

Set the flag to include Javadoc manually in the deployment DSL:

developer { includeJavadoc = true javadocDirectory = new File('[...]') }

**Solution**

The host type `all`

will inherit the includeJavadoc flag, so that per default Javadoc is deployed when:

Any other host type defines `includeJavadoc`

as `true`

, and

`development`

.A patch release **Gradle Tools 2.3.1** is available, that fixes the following issues:

Libraries defined as `libs`

dependency are not part of `testRuntime`

, i.e. the classes are not available while executing unit tests during the cartridge's build process. This may lead to test failures like

java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError: org/slf4j/LoggerFactory

The newly introduced assembly task `checkLibsCollisions`

may fail with `ConcurrentModificationException`

if the defined libraries are not already present in the local Gradle cache.

**Problem**

The newly introduced assembly task `checkLibsCollisions`

inspects dependency metadata to find the jar files to analyse. This is problematic when excluding certain jar files from the *tools* cartridge, because this exclusion can only happen during deployment, which does not influence the current collision check.

**Workaround**

There are two ways to avoid assembly build failure because of a false positive:

`-x checkLibsCollisions`

. You should still execute this task periodically to spot conflicts not intended.Tell the task to ignore certain conflicting classes via regex:

[...] checkLibsCollisions { excludes << /^some.*Regex.*/ }


The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.