---
id: '959b5c43dab97862e73eefee8c1e8d13'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/Z28001'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:47.464332+00:00'
---
All calculation tasks required upon calculating baskets or orders will be done by this framework. Generally, the calculation is triggered during the checkout process as well as when adding or removing items from or to the basket. The present concept is addressed to developers who want to become familiar with the basic structure of this framework.

The idea behind this framework is the spreadsheet functionality. The values are stored in cells, and you can define rules that will be executed when the cells are calculated.

Simple example:

In this example, the cell B will be calculated with the rule X. Once the values for cell B are available, the cell C can be calculated through rule Y. So the whole calculation can be defined only with the cells and the rules. All rules and cells will be defined in a rule set.

One goal of this framework is to handle the complexity of very extensive basket calculations. In the past, there was a large pipeline, which was difficult to handle and extend. To overcome these problems, the basket calculation framework has been introduced.

| Term | Description |
|---|---|
| Cell | The value of each cell should be immutable. That means that a cell can be written by only one rule. If you need a further manipulation of this cell, you must store it in a new cell via another rule.
|
| Computed item | The result of a rule delivers computed items which will be stored in the cells. Each computed item knows its dependent computed items in order to get the transparency about how the calculation yields these results. For each item, you can navigate to all items produced in former steps up to the start of the calculation. The computed items do not know the rules that produced them. This information is available only in the rule set. |
| PII | Payment instrument info |
| PLI | Product line item |
| Result view | The result view is an abstraction of the calculation results, which will get all relevant data through methods with corresponding names. |
| Rule | The rule itself describes the calculation steps between one or more cells. It has source cells, which make up the input of the rule, and target cells, which describe the result of the calculation step. There are also some exceptions, which will be discussed later. Rules can only be executed if the source cell values are available (i.e., are already calculated). If one value is missing, the rules cannot be executed. The source cells and the target cells can be related to different groups or sub groups. For example, a rule can have 3 groups as input and 2 groups as output (see group selector). Besides the input and target cells, the rule considers the current |
| Rule set | The rule set is a container for all rules and cells. It is defined in a single Java class. |

The *Result Set* defines all *Rules* and *Cell Selectors*. The *Rules* themselves use the *Cell Selectors* to create the *Computed Items*. The *Cell Selectors* are used to get the *Computed Items* in the calculation. The *Result View* defines methods to get the results. All BO classes (e.g,, the OrderBO) use the *Result View* to retrieve the calculated values.

The cell and the group as selector are easy to understand, but the SubGroup is a little more sophisticated.

Consider the following scenario:

Assume, there is a basket with four line items. Each line item represents a cell in a group called RootLineItem. The ID of the cell in this group is, for instance, also the UUID of the line item object. Now you can easily select the computed items (created during the calculation).

Now we want to calculate two or more taxes for each line item. At the creation time we do not know how many taxes will be there, so a group would not help here. Each tax needs a unique ID, but the ID is not unique here, except we specifically create the ID, which requires a difficult algorithm to resolve the correct taxes of the line item.

For that case, we can create a sub group of a given computed item. The SubGroup helps to create and to select child items that belong to one parent. In our case, we can create many taxes for one line item.

It is also possible to create a sub group in a sub group and so on. This way, you can map even complex scenarios.

Every rule set must match the following criteria:

The computed items will be used to store the results of the rule execution.

The interface ComputedItem is the base interface for all computed items.

Attribute | Description |
|---|---|
Description | Gets the description for this ComputedItem instance |
ID | Returns the ID of this ComputedItem. The ID is unique in the group. |
Group | Returns the group this ComputedItem belongs to |
SpreadSheet | Returns the SpreadSheet instance this item belongs to |
DependsOn | Returns all ComputedItem instances this item depends on |
DependsOn(group) | Returns the ComputedItem instances this item depends on and that belong to the specified group |

The interface ComputedMoneyItem passes on the amount of money.

Attribute | Description |
|---|---|
Money | Returns the money amount as instance of the type Money or null if no money amount is set for this instance |

Attribute | Description |
|---|---|
ComputedProductLineItems | Returns all computed product line item instances which belong to this shipping bucket |
RegionID | Returns a set of the IDs of all Regions |
ShippingMethodID | Returns the ID of the ShippingMethod |

Attribute | Description |
|---|---|
ShippingRule | Returns the shipping rule |
ShippingRuleID | Returns the shipping rule ID |
ShippingRuleDisplayName | Returns the name of the shipping rule |
ShippingRuleDescription | Returns the description of the shipping rule |

The interface ComputedProductLineItem encapsulates a ProductLineItem.

Attribute | Description |
|---|---|
ProductLineItemUUID | Returns the UUID of the product line item this instance depends on, or null if not set |
ProductLineItem | Returns the product line item instance, with the UUID set at this instance, or null if no UUID is set |
ProductRef | Returns ProductRef instance representing the product this instance refers to |

Attribute | Description |
|---|---|
Quantity | Returns the quantity |

The interface ComputedDiscountItem stores the discounts.

Attribute | Description |
|---|---|
PromotionID | Gets the promotion ID |
DiscountDescription | Gets the discount description |
DiscountRebate | Gets the discount rebate |
DiscountType | Gets the discount type |

The interface ComputedPaymentInstrumentItem stores the payment instrument item.

Attribute | Description |
|---|---|
PaymentInstrumentInfo | Gets the payment instrument info |

The interface ComputedPercentageItem stores the percentage item.

Attribute | Description |
|---|---|
Percentage | Returns the value representing a percentage |

The interface ComputedServiceLineItem stores the service line item.

Attribute | Description |
|---|---|
ServiceLineItemUUID | Returns the UUID of the service line item this instance depends on, or null if not set |
ServiceLineItem | Returns the service line item instance, with the UUID set at this instance, or null if no UUID is set |

Intershop recommends to use the existing rules whenever possible.

The class `CreateInitialProductItemsRule`

initially creates product line items from the line item container.

The class `AddMoneyRule`

adds the values of a certain input structure and outputs the result in a new target structure, e. g.,:

Depending on the target structure, the values will be added differently. If you, for instance, pass in a group set and want to specify a group as return value, all sets of each group will be added together (so that you get a sum for each group set). If you specify a cell as return value, all values of all group sets will be added to a single sum.

The class `AddQuantitiesRule`

adds the quantities.

The class `CalculatePaymentCostsRule`

calculates the payment costs of the given order amount.

Computes the quantities of all child items in relation to their root items.

If the root item has the quantity of **a** and the child item the quantity of **b,** the resulting quantity is **a*b**.

The class `CopyMoneyValueIntoNativeAttributeRule`

copies the attributes to the given native targets.

The class `CreateInitialServiceItemsRule`

creates the initial service items from the given line item container.

The class `CreateWarrantyPricesRule`

creates the single prices for each warranty.

Filters the product line items with the service type flag `ExcludeFromShipping`

from the computed product line items and returns the new group.

The class `PromotionBasketCalculationRule`

calculates all discounts and promotions configured in the channel.

The class `PromotionCalculationRule`

calculates all discounts and promotions configured in the channel. The rule uses the variables

from the calculation context.

This rule is a calculation step within the basket calculation.

It determines the shipping buckets for further shipping cost calculation.

This rule is a calculation step within the basket calculation.

It determines the extra cost applied on each product line item due to surcharges defined with the product or shipping rule.

This rule is a calculation step within the basket calculation.

It determines the bucket cost and shipping PLI cost for each product line item within each shipping bucket.

The class `CalculateMoneyRateRule`

calculates the percentage values of the given two money items.

This rule is a calculation step within the basket calculation.

It determines the product line items with a price (filters them).

The class `MultiplyMoneyWithPercentageRule`

multiplies prices with a percentage value.

The class `MultiplyMoneyWithQuantityRule`

multiplies single prices with given quantities.

The class `SubtractMoneyRule`

subtracts the given two money items.

This rule determines the product single base price for one or more product line items.

For the (scaled) price lookup, the quantities are accumulated for all line items referring to the same product.

The old net price flag at prices is not taken into account by this rule.

The rule can be configured to perform a lookup for a given currency (that might be different to the purchase currency of the LineItemCtnr).

The actual price lookup is performed via the ProductPriceMgr. If the flag `BasePriceFixed`

is set for the product line item, the single base price is directly taken from the ProductLineItemPO.

Determines the percentage amount of included taxes for the given gross price and the according tax rate.

Mathematically this means r = (1-(1(1+p))). This expression is calculated via the data type Double. With this the maximum precision is also bound to the Double data type.

The class `DeterminePaymentItemTaxRatesRule`

determines the tax rate for the given payment elements.

The class `DetermineProductItemTaxRatesRule`

determines the tax rates of the given PLIs.

The class `CalculateTaxSumsPerRateRule`

calculates all taxes by its tax rates.

The class `RoundMoneyRule`

rounds the given money items.

The class `CreateChildProductItemsRule`

creates a sub group of product line items.

Child products are sorted by the product UUID.

The class `SelectMoneyRule`

selects one of two money inputs as output, depending on which one is available. If both are available, the first input will be returned.

The class `CollectPromotionDiscountValuesRule`

collects promotion discounts with the same line item ID and adds them up. This is necessary because promotion discounts may be split up on individual items. For example, a line item with a quantity of three may include two items with a discount value of $1.00 and one item with a discount value of $1.02. Because values like taxes are calculated on a per-item basis (in the V3 rule sets), they need to be added up at the end to determine the gross value of the line item.

The class `DetermineTaxRatesForPromotionDiscountsRule`

maps a set of given tax rates to associated promotion discounts. This is necessary because promotion discounts may be split up on individual items. For example, a line item with a quantity of three may include two items with a discount value of $1.00 and one item with a discount value of $1.02. In this scenario the first "sub item" in the calculation may have an ID of "0-0" and the second one "0-2" (where the first number is always the associated line item). Tax rates, on the other hand, are always associated with line items, and because they use different IDs (in this scenario it would simply be "0"), a mapping is needed, which is what this rule does.

The class `CalculateAverageTaxRateRule`

calculates the average tax rate from all line items and the individual tax rates. The tax rate is calculated based on the base price distribution of the line items, i. e. items with a higher price have a higher weight when calculating the average tax rate.

The class `ChangeMoneySignRule`

changes the sign of a money item, i.e., multiplies it with -1. This is used to compare certain calculation values with discounts (as discounts are always negative).

The class `DetermineMaximumMoneyItemRule `

determines the maximum from a given set of money items.

Intershop provides the option to set up your own desired way of basket calculation via CalculationRulesets and also offers example calculation rule sets, which are used in the demo shop inTRONICS.

For details on how to create your own calculation rule sets, see [Cookbook - Basket Calculation](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1760035999/Cookbook+-+Basket+Calculation).

This section will give you an overview of the existing example calculation rule sets:

*NetBasedCalculation_V1*

*GrossBasedCalculation_V1*

The Net and Gross based V2 calculation rule sets are well known and available since IS 7.0. In IS 7.6 we introduced the Net and Gross based V3 calculation rule sets.

Info

Since it is a general requirement for all shops to display money values with their maximum allowed number of positions after decimal point (which is usually 2 for each common currency , e.g. 13.99 USD), rounding of these values will happen at some point.

At the moment the calculation rule sets `NetBasedCalculation_V3`

and `GrossBasedCalculation_V3`

are used in the demo store as default but there is always the possibility to change the reference rule sets or to use your own. For registering a new *rule set,* please have a look at [Cookbook - Basket Calculation | Recipe: Register the Rule Set](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1760035999/Cookbook+-+Basket+Calculation#Cookbook-BasketCalculation-RegisterRule).** **

V1 was the very first rule set already used in previous Enfinity Shop software and had yet limited features. It was not able to use a mix of GROSS and NET values. If your prices in the database were gross, all displayed and calculated prices in your shop had to be gross as well. This V1 rule set is no longer used, but is preserved for downwards compatibility reasons to handle old orders, that were once created with this rule set.

V2 is the default calculation rule set for all Intershop 7.x versions starting with Intershop 7.0.0.0 and before Intershop 7.8.0.0 (with Intershop 7.8.0.0 and newer the default rule set was switched to V3).

Example: In a scenario with net prices in the database and gross prices displayed in the storefront (Net Based Taxation Service, Channel Preference Price Type = Net, Price Display = Gross), the V2 basket calculation works like this:

At the same time, the single gross price of this line item has to be displayed in the storefront (rounded at 2 positions) as well as the total gross price of the number of this line item summed up (rounded at 2 positions).

Example in numbers:

Disadvantage: The prices displayed in the storefront may not sum up logically.

Advantage: The calculation totals are more precise due to less rounding in between.

In Intershop 7.6, we introduced a new calculation value called 'single discounted base prices'. This is due to the fact that some e-commerce managers wanted to calculate the discount at the level of single products to ensure that the correct discount is provided, e.g., to a taxation service. Furthermore, we are using the 'single discounted base prices' for calculating the PLI net and gross prices by multiplying it with the PLI quantity. Especially in net/gross settings where you store net prices and display those as gross prices that change prevents the calculation from rounding issues.

V3 is the default calculation rule set for all Intershop 7.8.x versions and newer, starting with Intershop 7.8.0.0.

Example: In a scenario with net prices in the database and gross prices displayed in the storefront (Net Based Taxation Service, Channel Preference Price Type = Net, Price Display = Gross), the V3 basket calculation works like this:

At the same time, the single gross price of this line item has to be displayed in the storefront (rounded at 2 positions) as well as the total gross price of the number of this line-item summed up (rounded at 2 positions).

Example in numbers:

Disadvantage: The calculation totals are less precise due to cumulative rounding issues made for intermediate results.

Advantage: The prices displayed in the storefront sum up logically.

It may be beneficial to only have one rule set instead of two different ones for net and gross based calculations. The only difference between the two is the factor by which taxes are calculated and if they are added or subtracted from the "base" price.

Please check our reference implementation of a rule set in the class `com.intershop.sellside.appbase.b2c.capi.calculation.NetBasedCalculation_V2`

.

To design the requirements for basket calculation the content is split in a table view and in a graph.

In the table there are defined the computed items with its dependencies, containing attributes, the type and description.

The graph is describing the access path to the computed items in the interface.

Group names are Java constants and will be represented in capital letters. For groups and group sets plural is taken and for cells singular.

Private fields, which are not accessible from the rule set, are cursive.

The whole net based calculation is separated into sub calculation which groups the responsibility.

The class PLI computes all calculation results on line item level.

Name | Type | creating rule | dependsOn | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
ROOT_PLIS | Group< |
| The root product line items | |
FILTERED_PLIS | Group< | Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli.ROOT_PLIS | The filtered product line items having a price | |
NET_BASE_PRICES | Group< | Pli. | The rounded raw price | |
GROSS_BASE_PRICES | Group< | Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.TAX_PRICES | The gross based prices for each PLI | |
SINGLE_BASE_PRICES | Group< | Pli.ROOT_PLIS | The single base prices for each product line item | |
SINGLE_BASE_GROSS_PRICES | Group< | Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The single base gross prices for each product line item | |
| Group< | Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli.FILTERED_PLIS | The raw base prices = quantity * single price | |
DISCOUNT_SUMS | Group< | Promotion.PLI_DISCOUNTS_ONITEM | The discounts for one product line item | |
NET_PRICES | Group< | Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.DISCOUNT_SUMS | The net prices = net base price + discount sums | |
GROSS_PRICES | Group< | Pli.NET_PRICES, Pli.TAX_PRICES | The gross prices = gross base price + discount sums | |
TAX_RATES | Group< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS | The tax rates for each product line item | |
TAX_PRICES | Group< | Pli. | The rounded tax prices for each product line item | |
TAX_PRICES_WO_DISCOUNTS | Group< | Pli. | The rounded tax prices w/o discounts for each product line item | |
| Group< | Pli. | The rounded single tax prices for each product line item | |
| Group< | Pli.TAX_RATES, Pli.TAX_PRICES | Separates the taxes amounts by its rates | |
TAX_GROUPED | Group< | Pli. | Separates the taxes amounts by its rates | |
| Group< | Pli.NET_PRICES, Pli.TAX_RATES | The raw tax prices for each product line item (not rounded) | |
| Group< | Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli.TAX_RATES | The single raw tax prices for each product line item (not rounded) | |
| Group< | Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.TAX_RATES | The raw tax prices w/o discounts for each product line item (not rounded) | |
SUBTOTALS | Group< |
|
| The sub totals bundles all kinds of sub totals |
SUBTOTALS_DISCOUNT | Cell< | Pli.DISCOUNT_SUMS | The sub total of all discount | |
SUBTOTALS_NET | Cell< | Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Warranty.TOTALS_NET | The sub total of all net base prices + shipping surcharges | |
SUBTOTALS_GROSS | Cell< | Pli.SUBTOTALS_NET, Pli.TAX_PRICES_WO_DISCOUNTS, Warranty.PLI_TAXES | The sub total of all gross base prices + shipping surcharges | |
SUBTOTALS_NET_WITH_DISCOUNT | Cell< | Pli.SUBTOTALS_NET, Pli.SUBTOTALS_DISCOUNT | The sub total of all net sub total + sub total discounts | |
SUBTOTALS_GROSS_WITH_DISCOUNT | Cell< | Pli.SUBTOTALS_NET_WITH_DISCOUNT, Pli.SUBTOTALS_TAX | The sub total of all gross sub total + sub total discounts | |
| Cell< | Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES | The sub total of all net base prices | |
SUBTOTALS_TAX | Cell< | Pli.TAX_PRICES, Warranty.PLI_TAXES | The sub total of all taxes |

The class Gifting computes all computed items for the gifting responsibility.

Gifting means all wraps and messages.

Name | Type | creating rule | dependsOn | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| SubGroup< | Pli.ROOT_PLIS | The product line items for gifting | |
FILTERED_PLIS | SubGroup< | Gifting.PLI_SINGLE_PRICES, Gifting. | The filtered gifting product line items (having a price) | |
| SubGroup< | Pli.ROOT_PLIS, Gifting.FILTERED_PLIS | The quantities = quantity root item * quantity child item | |
PLI_BASE_PRICES | SubGroup< | Gifting. | The base prices for all gifting item (rounded) of one root item | |
PLI_NET_PRICES | SubGroup< | Gifting.PLI_BASE_PRICES, Gifting. | The net prices = base price + discount sum | |
PLI_GROSS_PRICES | SubGroup< | Gifting.PLI_NET_PRICES, Gifting.PLI_TAXES | The gross prices = net price + taxes | |
| SubGroup< | Gifting.PLI_SINGLE_PRICES, Gifting. | The raw prices for a single gifting item multiplied with the quantities | |
PLI_SINGLE_PRICES | SubGroup< | Gifting. | The single prices for one gifting item | |
PLI_RAW_TAXES | SubGroup< | Gifting.PLI_NET_PRICES, Gifting.PLI_TAX_RATES | The raw taxes for all gifting items of one root item | |
PLI_TAXES | SubGroup< | Gifting.PLI_RAW_TAXES | The taxes for all gifting items of one root item | |
PLI_TAX_RATES | SubGroup< | Gifting. | The taxes rates for each gifting item | |
| SubGroup< | Gifting.PLI_BASE_PRICES | The discounts for each gifting item | |
| SubGroup< | Gifting. | The discounts sum for all gifting item for one root item | |
TOTALS_NET | Cell< | Gifting.PLI_NET_PRICES | The total net for all gifting items for all root items | |
TOTALS_GROSS | Cell< | Gifting.PLI_GROSS_PRICES | The total gross for all gifting items for all root items | |
TOTALS_CONFIGURATION_NET | Cell< | Configuration.PLI_NET_PRICES | The total for all product configuration items for all root items | |
TAX_GROUPED | Group< | Gifting.PLI_TAX_RATES, Gifting.PLI_TAXES, Pli.ROOT_PLIS | Separates the taxes amounts by its rates |

The class Shipping computes all computed items for the shipping responsibility.

Name | Type | creating rule | dependsOn | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
BUCKETS | Group< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS | The buckets for each shipping | |
BUCKET_PRICES | Group< | Shipping. | The not discounted shipping costs for each bucket | |
PLI_PRICES | Group< | Shipping. | The not discounted shipping costs distributed on PLIs | |
PLI_TOTALS | Group< | Shipping.PLI_PRICES, Shipping.TAXES | The shipping total costs distributed on PLIs | |
DISCOUNTED_PLI_PRICES | Group< | Shipping.PLI_PRICES, Shipping.PLI_PRICES_DISCOUNT | The discounted shipping costs distributed on PLIs | |
PLI_PRICES_DISCOUNT | Group< | Promotion.PLI_DISCOUNTS_ONSHIPPING |
| |
| Group< | Shipping.DISCOUNTED_PLI_PRICES, Pli.TAX_RATES | The raw taxes | |
TAXES | Group< | Shipping. | The taxes on shipping costs distributed on PLIs | |
PLI_TOTAL_SURCHARGE_COSTS | Group< | Shipping. | The shipping total surcharge costs on PLI level | |
SUBTOTALS | Group< |
|
| The SHIPPING subtotals |
TOTALS_DISCOUNT | Cell< | Shipping.PLI_PRICES_DISCOUNT | The TOTALs shipping discount | |
TOTALS_NET | Cell< | Shipping.PLI_PRICES | The TOTALs shipping net | |
TOTALS_GROSS | Cell< | Shipping.TOTALS_NET, Shipping.TOTALS_TAX | The TOTALs shipping gross | |
TOTALS_TAX | Cell< | Shipping.TAXES | The TOTALs shipping tax | |
TAX_GROUPED | Group< | Pli.TAX_RATES, Shipping.TAXES | Separates the taxes amounts by its rates | |
PLI_SURCHARGES | GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Shipping.BUCKETS | The shipping surcharge costs. More than one per PLI possible | |
PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS | GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Shipping.BUCKETS |
| |
PLI_SURCHARGES_GROSS_COSTS | GroupSet< | Shipping.PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS, Shipping.PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS_TAX |
| |
| GroupSet< | Shipping.PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS, Pli.TAX_RATES |
| |
PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS_TAX | GroupSet< | Shipping. |
| |
PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS_TAX_GROUPED | Group< | Pli.TAX_RATES, Shipping.PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS_TAX |
| |
PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS_GROUPED | Group< | Shipping.PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS, Shipping.PLI_SURCHARGES |
| |
PLI_IMPORT_SURCHARGES_COSTS_GROUPED | Group< | Shipping.PLI_IMPORT_SURCHARGES_COSTS, Shipping.PLI_IMPORT_SURCHARGES |
| |
PLI_BUCKET_SURCHARGES_COSTS_GROUPED | Group< | Shipping.BUCKET_SURCHARGE_COSTS, Shipping.BUCKET_SURCHARGES |
| |
PLI_IMPORT_SURCHARGES | GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Shipping.BUCKETS | The import surcharge costs. More than one per PLI possible | |
PLI_IMPORT_SURCHARGES_COSTS | GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Shipping.BUCKETS |
| |
BUCKET_SURCHARGES | GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Shipping.BUCKETS | The bucket shipping surcharge costs. More than one per bucket possible | |
BUCKET_SURCHARGE_COSTS | GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Shipping.BUCKETS |
| |
BUCKET_PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS | GroupSet< | Shipping.BUCKET_SURCHARGE_COSTS, Shipping.BUCKETS, Shipping.PLI_PRICES |
| |
| GroupSet< | Shipping.BUCKET_PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS, Pli.TAX_RATES |
| |
BUCKET_PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS_TAX | GroupSet< | Shipping. |
| |
BUCKET_PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS_TAX_GROUPED | Group< | Pli.TAX_RATES, Shipping.BUCKET_PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS_TAX |
| |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Shipping.BUCKETS | The SHIPPING bucket overrides | |
| GroupSet< |
|
| |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Shipping.BUCKETS | The SHIPPING bucket override cost | |
| GroupSet< |
|
| |
| GroupSet< |
| The SHIPPING bucket surcharges | |
| GroupSet< |
| The SHIPPING bucket surcharge costs | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Shipping.BUCKETS | The shipping override | |
| GroupSet< |
|
| |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Shipping.BUCKETS | The shipping override cost | |
| GroupSet< |
|
| |
| GroupSet< |
| The shipping surcharges | |
| GroupSet< |
|
| |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Shipping.BUCKETS | The geographical surcharges | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Shipping.BUCKETS | The geographical surcharge costs |

The class Order bundles all values for the order.

Name | Type | creating rule | dependsOn | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Group< |
|
| Defines the group for all sub totals |
VALUE_NET | Cell< | Pli.SUBTOTALS_NET_WITH_DISCOUNT, Order.VALUE_DISCOUNT | The order value net = all pli sub totals + order value discount + all sub totals discounts | |
VALUE_TAX | Cell< | Order. | The rounded raw taxes | |
VALUE_DISCOUNT | Cell< | Promotion. | The order value discount containing all discounts on the order | |
| Cell< | Pli.SUBTOTALS_TAX, Order. | The value raw discounted tax = the sub totals tax * value discount rate | |
| Cell< | Order.VALUE_NET, Pli.SUBTOTALS_NET_WITH_DISCOUNT | The resulting order value discount rate |

The class Payment bundles all payment computed items.

Name | Type | creating rule | dependsOn | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Total.TOTALS_GROSS_WITHOUT_PAYMENTSURCHARGES |
| ||
| Total.TOTALS_GROSS_WITHOUT_PAYMENTSURCHARGES |
| ||
OPEN_TENDER_PIIS | Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS, Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES, Payment. |
| ||
LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS | Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS, Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES, Payment. |
| ||
| Group< | Total.TOTALS_GROSS_WITHOUT_PAYMENTSURCHARGES | The open tender PIIs pre base amounts | |
| Group< | Total.TOTALS_GROSS_WITHOUT_PAYMENTSURCHARGES | The limited tender PIIs pre base amounts | |
OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_BASEAMOUNT | Group< | Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS, Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES, Payment. | The open tender PIIs base amounts | |
LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_BASEAMOUNT | Group< | Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS, Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES, Payment. | The limited tender PIIs base amounts | |
OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS | Group< | Payment. | The open tender PIIs payment costs | |
OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_GROSS_COSTS | Group< | Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS, Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES | The open tender PIIs payment gross costs | |
LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS | Group< | Payment. | The limited tender PIIs payment costs | |
LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_GROSS_COSTS | Group< | Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES | The limited tender PIIs payment gross costs | |
OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES | Group< | Payment.RAW_OPEN_TAXES | The open tender PIIs payment taxes | |
RAW_OPEN_TAXES | Group< | Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS, Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_RATES | The raw open tender PIIs payment taxes | |
LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES | Group< | Payment.RAW_LIMITED_TAXES | The limited tender PIIs payment taxes | |
RAW_LIMITED_TAXES | Group< | Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_RATES | The raw limited tender PIIs payment taxes | |
OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_RATES | Group< | Payment. | The open tender PIIs payment rates | |
LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_RATES | Group< | Payment. | The limited tender PIIs payment rates | |
OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_SURCHARGES | Group< | Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS, Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES | The open tender PIIs payment surcharges (sum of payment cost and payment taxes) | |
LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_SURCHARGES | Group< | Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES | The limited tender PIIs payment surcharges (sum of payment cost and payment taxes) | |
OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_TOTAL | Group< | Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_BASEAMOUNT, Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_SURCHARGES | The open tender PIIs payment total amount (sum of payment base amount and payment surcharges) | |
LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_TOTAL | Group< | Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_BASEAMOUNT, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_SURCHARGES | The limited tender PIIs payment total amount (sum of payment base amount and payment surcharges) | |
LIMITED_TENDER_NET_PIIS_TOTAL | Group< | Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_BASEAMOUNT, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS | The limited tender PIIs payment net total amount (sum of payment base amount and payment surcharges) | |
PIIS_TO_BE_DELETED | Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS, Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES, Payment. |
| ||
SUBTOTALS | Group< |
|
| The payment sub totals |
TOTALS_NET | Cell< | Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS | The totals payment net (a.k.a. the payment cost) | |
TOTALS_TAX | Cell< | Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES | The totals payment tax | |
TOTALS_SURCHARGES | Cell< | Payment.TOTALS_NET, Payment.TOTALS_TAX | The totals payment surcharges | |
TOTALS_COVERED_LIMITED | Cell< | Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_TOTAL | The totals payment amount covered by all payment instruments | |
TOTALS_COVERED_NET_LIMITED | Cell< | Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_TOTAL | The totals payment net amount covered by all payment instruments | |
TOTALS_COVERED | Cell< | Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_TOTAL, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_TOTAL | The totals payment amount covered by all payment instruments | |
TAX_GROUPED | Group< | Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_TAX_GROUPED, Payment.OPEN_TENDER_TAX_GROUPED | Separates the taxes amounts by its rates | |
LIMITED_TENDER_TAX_GROUPED | Group< | Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_RATES, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES |
| |
OPEN_TENDER_TAX_GROUPED | Group< | Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_RATES, Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES |
|

The class Total bundles all totals values.

Name | Type | creating rule | dependsOn | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
TOTALS | Group< |
|
| Group totals defines the group of all totals cells |
TOTALS_DISCOUNT | Cell< | Shipping.TOTALS_DISCOUNT, Pli.SUBTOTALS_DISCOUNT, Order.VALUE_DISCOUNT | The totals of all discount | |
VALUE_DISCOUNT | Cell< | Pli.SUBTOTALS_DISCOUNT, Order.VALUE_DISCOUNT | The totals of all value discount (w/o shipping discount) | |
| Cell< | Order.VALUE_NET, Shipping.TOTALS_NET, Shipping.TOTALS_DISCOUNT, Gifting.TOTALS_NET, Total.TOTALS_SURCHARGES | The totals net = sum of all amounts without payment costs | |
TOTALS_NET | Cell< | Total. | The totals net = sum of all amounts | |
TOTALS_TAX_WITHOUT_PAYMENTTAX | Cell< | Order.VALUE_TAX, Shipping.TOTALS_TAX, Gifting.PLI_TAXES, Total.TOTALS_SURCHARGES_TAX | The totals tax = sum of all taxes | |
TOTALS_TAX | Cell< | Total.TOTALS_TAX_WITHOUT_PAYMENTTAX, Payment.TOTALS_TAX | The totals tax = sum of all taxes | |
TOTALS_GROSS_WITHOUT_PAYMENTSURCHARGES | Cell< | Total. | The totals gross = totals net + taxes | |
TOTALS_GROSS_MINUS_LIMITED_PII | Cell< | Total.TOTALS_GROSS, Payment.TOTALS_COVERED_LIMITED | The totals gross - limited PIIs | |
TOTALS_NET_MINUS_LIMITED_PII | Cell< | Total.TOTALS_NET, Payment.TOTALS_COVERED_NET_LIMITED | The totals net - limited PIIs | |
TOTALS_GROSS | Cell< | Total.TOTALS_GROSS_WITHOUT_PAYMENTSURCHARGES, Payment.TOTALS_NET, Payment.TOTALS_TAX | The totals gross = totals net + taxes | |
TOTALS_SURCHARGES | Cell< | Shipping.PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS, Shipping.PLI_IMPORT_SURCHARGES_COSTS, Shipping.BUCKET_SURCHARGE_COSTS | The totals surcharges amount. Includes only surcharges that do not modify any other price like product prices or shipping costs | |
TOTALS_SURCHARGES_TAX | Cell< | Shipping.PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS_TAX, Shipping.BUCKET_PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS_TAX | Tax for all surcharges | |
PLI_TAX_GROUPED | Group< | Pli.TAX_GROUPED, Gifting.TAX_GROUPED | Separates the taxes amounts by its rates | |
DISCOUNTED_PLI_TAX_GROUPED | Group< | Total. | Grouped taxes discounted PLIs | |
DISCOUNTED_PLI_AND_SHIPPING_TAX_GROUPED | Group< | Total.DISCOUNTED_PLI_TAX_GROUPED, Shipping.TAX_GROUPED | Grouped taxes discounted PLIs plus shipping | |
TOTALS_TAX_GROUPED | Group< | Total.DISCOUNTED_PLI_AND_SHIPPING_TAX_GROUPED, Shipping.PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS_TAX_GROUPED, Shipping.BUCKET_PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS_TAX_GROUPED, Payment.TAX_GROUPED | Grouped taxes discounted PLIs plus shipping plus payment | |
| Group< | Total.PLI_TAX_GROUPED, Order. | The value raw discounted tax = the sub totals tax * value discount rate | |
ORDER_SHIPPING_DISCOUNT | Cell< | Promotion. | The order shipping discount amount | |
BUCKET_SHIPPING_DISCOUNT | Cell< | Promotion. | The bucket shipping discount amount | |
ITEM_SHIPPING_DISCOUNT_RAW | Cell< | Promotion.PLI_DISCOUNTS_ONSHIPPING |
| |
ITEM_SHIPPING_DISCOUNT_MINUS_BUCKET_SHIPPING_DISCOUNT | Cell< | Total.ITEM_SHIPPING_DISCOUNT_RAW, Total.BUCKET_SHIPPING_DISCOUNT | The item shipping discount amount after subtraction of bucket shipping discount | |
ITEM_SHIPPING_DISCOUNT | Cell< | Total.ITEM_SHIPPING_DISCOUNT_MINUS_BUCKET_SHIPPING_DISCOUNT, Total.ORDER_SHIPPING_DISCOUNT | The final item shipping discount amount after subtraction of bucket and order shipping discount amount |

The class BonusPoint bundles all computed items for bonus points.

Name | Type | creating rule | dependsOn | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Group< | The bonus point product line items | ||
TOTALS_BPP | Cell< | The totals bonus point price | ||
TOTALS_BPV | Cell< | The totals bonus point value |

The class Warranty computes all computed items for the warranty responsibility.

Name | Type | creating rule | dependsOn | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| SubGroup< | Pli.ROOT_PLIS | The warranty product line items | |
FILTERED_PLIS | SubGroup< | Warranty.PLI_SINGLE_PRICES, Warranty. | The filtered warranty product line items (having a price) | |
PLI_SINGLE_PRICES | SubGroup< | Warranty. | The single prices for each warranty item | |
| SubGroup< | Pli.ROOT_PLIS, Warranty.FILTERED_PLIS | The quantity = quantity warranty item * quantity root item | |
| SubGroup< | Warranty.PLI_SINGLE_PRICES, Warranty. | The raw net prices = base price * quantity | |
PLI_NET_PRICES | SubGroup< | Warranty. | The rounded base price | |
PLI_GROSS_PRICES | SubGroup< | Warranty.PLI_NET_PRICES, Warranty.PLI_TAXES | The rounded gross base price | |
PLI_RAW_TAXES | SubGroup< | Warranty.PLI_NET_PRICES, Pli.TAX_RATES | The raw taxes for the warranty for each root item | |
PLI_TAXES | SubGroup< | Warranty.PLI_RAW_TAXES | The taxes for the warranty for each root item | |
TOTALS_NET | Cell< | Warranty.PLI_NET_PRICES | The total for all warranties | |
TOTALS_GROSS | Cell< | Warranty.TOTALS_NET, Warranty.PLI_TAXES | The total gross for all warranties | |
TAX_GROUPED | Group< | Pli.TAX_RATES, Warranty.PLI_TAXES, Pli.ROOT_PLIS | Separates the taxes amounts by its rates |

The class Promotion calculates all computed items for discounts and promotion items.

Name | Type | creating rule | dependsOn | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
APPLIED_DISCOUNTS | GroupSet< |
|
| The applied discounts |
DYNAMIC_MESSAGE_DISCOUNTS | GroupSet< |
|
| The dynamic message discounts |
APPLIED_DISCOUNT_AMOUNTS | Group< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The applied discount amounts | |
APPLIED_DISCOUNTS_ONITEM | Group< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The applied discounts on item | |
| Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The dynamic message discounts on item | ||
PLI_DISCOUNTS_ONITEM | GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The PLI discounts on item | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The PLI single discounts on item | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The PLI discounted item target prices on item | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The PLI discounted item percentages on item | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The PLI discounted item quantities on item | |
APPLIED_DISCOUNTS_ONORDERVALUE | Group< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The applied discounts on order value | |
| Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The dynamic message discounts on order value | ||
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The order value discounts on order value | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. |
| |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The PLI discounts on order value | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The PLI single discounts on order value | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The PLI discounted item quantities on order value | |
BONUS_PRODUCTS_ONGIFT | GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The bonus products on gift | |
| Group< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The applied discounts on gift | |
| Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The dynamic message discounts on gift | ||
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The discounted item quantities on gift | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. |
| |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. |
| |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. |
| |
BONUS_PRODUCTS_ONHIDDENGIFT | GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The bonus products on hidden gift | |
| Group< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The applied discounts on hidden gift | |
| Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The dynamic message discounts on hidden gift | ||
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The discounted item quantities on hidden gift | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. |
| |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. |
| |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. |
| |
APPLIED_DISCOUNTS_ONSHIPPING | Group< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The applied discounts on shipping | |
| Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The dynamic message discounts on shipping | ||
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The order discounts on shipping | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The bucket discounts on shipping | |
PLI_DISCOUNTS_ONSHIPPING | GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The PLI discounts on shipping | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The shipping percentages on shipping | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The PLI discounted item quantities on shipping | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The PLI single discounts on shipping | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The PLI target prices on shipping | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The bucket target prices on shipping | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The order target prices on shipping |

The class Configuration calculates all configurable and customizable products.

Name | Type | creating rule | dependsOn | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| SubGroup< | Pli.ROOT_PLIS | The configuration product line items | |
FILTERED_PLIS | SubGroup< | Configuration.PLI_SINGLE_PRICES, Configuration. | The filtered configuration product line items (having a price) | |
PLI_SINGLE_PRICES | SubGroup< | Configuration. | The single prices for each configuration item | |
| SubGroup< | Pli.ROOT_PLIS, Configuration.FILTERED_PLIS | The quantity = quantity configuration * quantity root item | |
| SubGroup< | Configuration.PLI_SINGLE_PRICES, Configuration. | The raw net prices = quantity * single price | |
PLI_NET_PRICES | SubGroup< | Configuration. | The rounded raw prices | |
PLI_TAX_RATES | SubGroup< | Configuration. | The taxes rates for each configuration item | |
PLI_TAXES | SubGroup< | Configuration.PLI_RAW_TAXES | The rounded taxes | |
PLI_RAW_TAXES | SubGroup< | Configuration.PLI_NET_PRICES, Configuration.PLI_TAX_RATES | The raw taxes | |
TOTALS_NET | Cell< | Configuration.PLI_NET_PRICES | The total of all configuration items |

Please check our reference implementation of a rule set in the class `com.intershop.sellside.appbase.b2c.capi.calculation.GrossBasedCalculation_V2`

.

The class Pli computes all calculation results on line item level.

Name | Type | creating rule | dependsOn | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
ROOT_PLIS | Group< |
| The root product line items | |
FILTERED_PLIS | Group< | Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli.ROOT_PLIS | The filtered product line items having a price | |
GROSS_BASE_PRICES | Group< | Pli. | The rounded raw price | |
NET_BASE_PRICES | Group< | Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.TAX_PRICES | The rounded net base prices | |
SINGLE_BASE_PRICES | Group< | Pli.ROOT_PLIS | The single base prices for each product line item | |
SINGLE_BASE_NET_PRICES | Group< | Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_TAX_PRICES | The single base net prices for each product line item | |
| Group< | Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli.FILTERED_PLIS | The raw base prices = quantity * single price | |
DISCOUNT_SUMS | Group< | Promotion.PLI_DISCOUNTS_ONITEM | The discounts for one product line item | |
GROSS_PRICES | Group< | Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.DISCOUNT_SUMS | The Gross prices = Gross base price + discount sums | |
NET_PRICES | Group< | Pli.GROSS_PRICES, Pli.TAX_PRICES | The Net prices = Gross base price - Taxes | |
TAX_RATES | Group< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS | The tax rates for each product line item | |
TAX_INCLUDED_RATES | Group< | Pli.TAX_RATES | The included tax rates for each product line item | |
TAX_PRICES | Group< | Pli. | The rounded tax prices for each product line item | |
TAX_PRICES_WO_DISCOUNTS | Group< | Pli. | The rounded tax prices w/o discounts for each product line item | |
SINGLE_TAX_PRICES | Group< | Pli. | The rounded single tax prices for each product line item | |
| Group< | Pli.TAX_RATES, Pli.TAX_PRICES | Separates the taxes amounts by its rates | |
TAX_GROUPED | Group< | Pli. | Separates the taxes amounts by its rates | |
| Group< | Pli.GROSS_PRICES, Pli.TAX_INCLUDED_RATES | The raw tax prices for each product line item (not rounded) | |
| Group< | Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli.TAX_INCLUDED_RATES | The raw tax prices for each product line item for single quantity (not rounded) | |
| Group< | Pli.NET_BASE_PRICES, Pli.TAX_RATES | The raw tax prices w/o discounts for each product line item (not rounded) | |
SUBTOTALS | Group< |
|
| The sub totals bundles all kinds of sub totals |
SUBTOTALS_DISCOUNT | Cell< | Pli.DISCOUNT_SUMS | The sub total of all discount | |
SUBTOTALS_GROSS | Cell< | Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Warranty.TOTALS_GROSS | The sub total of all Gross base prices + shipping surcharges | |
SUBTOTALS_NET | Cell< | Pli.SUBTOTALS_GROSS, Pli.SUBTOTALS_TAX_WO_DISCOUNTS | The sub total of all net base prices + shipping surcharges | |
SUBTOTALS_GROSS_WITH_DISCOUNT | Cell< | Pli.SUBTOTALS_GROSS, Pli.SUBTOTALS_DISCOUNT | The sub total of all Gross base prices + shipping surcharges + Discounts | |
SUBTOTALS_NET_WITH_DISCOUNT | Cell< | Pli.SUBTOTALS_GROSS_WITH_DISCOUNT, Pli.SUBTOTALS_TAX | The sub total of all Net base prices + shipping surcharges + Discounts | |
| Cell< | Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES | The sub total of all Gross base prices | |
SUBTOTALS_TAX | Cell< | Pli.TAX_PRICES, Warranty.PLI_TAXES | The sub total of all taxes | |
SUBTOTALS_TAX_WO_DISCOUNTS | Cell< | Pli.TAX_PRICES_WO_DISCOUNTS, Warranty.PLI_TAXES | The sub total of all taxes w/o discounts |

The class Gifting computes all computed items for the gifting responsibility.

Gifting means all wraps and messages.

Name | Type | creating rule | dependsOn | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| SubGroup< | Pli.ROOT_PLIS | The product line items for gifting | |
FILTERED_PLIS | SubGroup< | Gifting.PLI_SINGLE_PRICES, Gifting. | The filtered gifting product line items (having a price) | |
| SubGroup< | Pli.ROOT_PLIS, Gifting.FILTERED_PLIS | The quantities = quantity root item * quantity child item | |
PLI_BASE_PRICES | SubGroup< | Gifting. | The base prices for all gifting item (rounded) of one root item | |
PLI_GROSS_PRICES | SubGroup< | Gifting.PLI_BASE_PRICES, Gifting. | The Gross prices = base price + discount sum | |
PLI_NET_PRICES | SubGroup< | Gifting.PLI_GROSS_PRICES, Gifting.PLI_TAXES | The Net prices = gross price - taxes | |
| SubGroup< | Gifting.PLI_SINGLE_PRICES, Gifting. | The raw prices for a single gifting item multiplied with the quantities | |
PLI_SINGLE_PRICES | SubGroup< | Gifting. | The single prices for one gifting item | |
PLI_TAXES | SubGroup< |
| The taxes for all gifting items of one root item. | |
| SubGroup< | Gifting.PLI_BASE_PRICES | The discounts for each gifting item | |
| SubGroup< | Gifting. | The discounts sum for all gifting item for one root item | |
TOTALS_GROSS | Cell< | Gifting.PLI_GROSS_PRICES | The total gross for all gifting items for all root items | |
TOTALS_NET | Cell< | Gifting.TOTALS_GROSS, Gifting. | The total net for all gifting items for all root items | |
| Cell< | Gifting.PLI_TAXES | The total tax for all gifting items for all root items | |
TAX_GROUPED | Group< | Gifting.PLI_TAX_RATES, Gifting.PLI_TAXES, Pli.ROOT_PLIS | Separates the taxes amounts by its rates | |
PLI_TAX_RATES | SubGroup< | Gifting. | The taxes rates for each gifting item |

The class Shipping computes all computed items for the shipping responsibility.

Name | Type | creating rule | dependsOn | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
BUCKETS | Group< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS | The buckets for each shipping | |
BUCKET_PRICES | Group< | Shipping. | The not discounted shipping costs for each bucket | |
PLI_PRICES | Group< | Shipping. | The not discounted shipping costs distributed on PLIs | |
PLI_TOTALS | Group< | Shipping.PLI_PRICES | The shipping total costs distributed on PLIs | |
DISCOUNTED_PLI_PRICES | Group< | Shipping.PLI_PRICES, Shipping.PLI_PRICES_DISCOUNT | The discounted shipping costs distributed on PLIs | |
PLI_PRICES_DISCOUNT | Group< | Promotion.PLI_DISCOUNTS_ONSHIPPING |
| |
| Group< | Shipping.DISCOUNTED_PLI_PRICES, Pli.TAX_INCLUDED_RATES | The raw taxes | |
TAXES | Group< | Shipping. | The taxes on shipping costs distributed on PLIs | |
PLI_TOTAL_SURCHARGE_COSTS | Group< | Shipping. | The shipping total surcharge costs on PLI level | |
SUBTOTALS | Group< |
|
| The SHIPPING subtotals |
TOTALS_DISCOUNT | Cell< | Shipping.PLI_PRICES_DISCOUNT | The TOTALs shipping discount | |
TOTALS_GROSS | Cell< | Shipping.PLI_PRICES | The TOTALs shipping gross | |
TOTALS_NET | Cell< | Shipping.TOTALS_GROSS, Shipping.TOTALS_TAX | The TOTALs shipping net | |
TOTALS_TAX | Cell< | Shipping.TAXES | The TOTALs shipping tax | |
TAX_GROUPED | Group< | Pli.TAX_RATES, Shipping.TAXES | Separates the taxes amounts by its rates | |
PLI_SURCHARGES | GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Shipping.BUCKETS | The shipping surcharge costs. More than one per PLI possible | |
PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS | GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Shipping.BUCKETS |
| |
PLI_SURCHARGES_NET_COSTS | GroupSet< | Shipping.PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS, Shipping.PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS_TAX |
| |
| GroupSet< | Shipping.PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS, Pli.TAX_INCLUDED_RATES |
| |
PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS_TAX | GroupSet< | Shipping. |
| |
PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS_TAX_GROUPED | Group< | Pli.TAX_RATES, Shipping.PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS_TAX |
| |
PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS_GROUPED | Group< | Shipping.PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS, Shipping.PLI_SURCHARGES |
| |
PLI_IMPORT_SURCHARGES_COSTS_GROUPED | Group< | Shipping.PLI_IMPORT_SURCHARGES_COSTS, Shipping.PLI_IMPORT_SURCHARGES |
| |
PLI_BUCKET_SURCHARGES_COSTS_GROUPED | Group< | Shipping.BUCKET_SURCHARGE_COSTS, Shipping.BUCKET_SURCHARGES |
| |
PLI_IMPORT_SURCHARGES | GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Shipping.BUCKETS | The import surcharge costs. More than one per PLI possible | |
PLI_IMPORT_SURCHARGES_COSTS | GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Shipping.BUCKETS |
| |
BUCKET_SURCHARGES | GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Shipping.BUCKETS | The bucket shipping surcharge costs. More than one per bucket possible | |
BUCKET_SURCHARGE_COSTS | GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Shipping.BUCKETS |
| |
BUCKET_PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS | GroupSet< | Shipping.BUCKET_SURCHARGE_COSTS, Shipping.BUCKETS, Shipping.PLI_PRICES |
| |
| GroupSet< | Shipping.BUCKET_PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS, Pli.TAX_INCLUDED_RATES |
| |
BUCKET_PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS_TAX | GroupSet< | Shipping. |
| |
BUCKET_PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS_TAX_GROUPED | Group< | Pli.TAX_RATES, Shipping.BUCKET_PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS_TAX |
| |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Shipping.BUCKETS | The SHIPPING bucket overrides | |
| GroupSet< |
|
| |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Shipping.BUCKETS | The SHIPPING bucket override cost | |
| GroupSet< |
|
| |
| GroupSet< |
| The SHIPPING bucket surcharges | |
| GroupSet< |
| The SHIPPING bucket surcharge costs | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Shipping.BUCKETS | The shipping override | |
| GroupSet< |
|
| |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Shipping.BUCKETS | The shipping override cost | |
| GroupSet< |
|
| |
| GroupSet< |
| The shipping surcharges | |
| GroupSet< |
|
| |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Shipping.BUCKETS | The geographical surcharges | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Shipping.BUCKETS | The geographical surcharge costs |

The class Order bundles all values for the order.

Name | Type | creating rule | dependsOn | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Group< |
|
| defining the group for all sub totals |
VALUE_GROSS | Cell< | Pli.SUBTOTALS_GROSS_WITH_DISCOUNT, Order.VALUE_DISCOUNT | The order value Gross = all pli sub totals + order value discount + all sub totals discounts | |
| Cell< | Order. | The rounded raw taxes | |
VALUE_DISCOUNT | Cell< | Promotion. | The order value discount containing all discounts on the order | |
| Cell< | Pli.SUBTOTALS_TAX, Order. | The value raw discounted tax = the sub totals tax * value discount rate | |
| Cell< | Order.VALUE_GROSS, Pli.SUBTOTALS_GROSS_WITH_DISCOUNT | The resulting order value discount rate |

The class Payment bundles all payment computed items.

Name | Type | creating rule | dependsOn | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Total.TOTALS_GROSS_WITHOUT_PAYMENTSURCHARGES |
| ||
| Total.TOTALS_GROSS_WITHOUT_PAYMENTSURCHARGES |
| ||
OPEN_TENDER_PIIS | Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS, Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES, Payment. |
| ||
LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS | Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS, Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES, Payment. |
| ||
| Group< | Total.TOTALS_GROSS_WITHOUT_PAYMENTSURCHARGES | The open tender PIIs pre base amounts | |
| Group< | Total.TOTALS_GROSS_WITHOUT_PAYMENTSURCHARGES | The limited tender PIIs pre base amounts | |
OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_BASEAMOUNT | Group< | Payment. | The open tender PIIs base amounts | |
LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_BASEAMOUNT | Group< | Payment. | The limited tender PIIs base amounts | |
OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS | Group< | Payment. | The open tender PIIs payment costs | |
OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_NET_COSTS | Group< | Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS, Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES | The open tender PIIs payment net costs | |
LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_NET_COSTS | Group< | Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES | The limited tender PIIs payment net costs | |
LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS | Group< | Payment. | The limited tender PIIs payment costs | |
OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES | Group< | Payment. | The open tender PIIs payment taxes | |
| Group< | Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS, Payment. | The raw open tender PIIs payment taxes | |
LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES | Group< | Payment. | The limited tender PIIs payment taxes | |
| Group< | Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS, Payment. | The raw limited tender PIIs payment taxes | |
OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_RATES | Group< | Payment. | The open tender PIIs payment rates | |
| Group< | Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_RATES |
| |
LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_RATES | Group< | Payment. | The limited tender PIIs payment rates | |
| Group< | Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_RATES |
| |
OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_SURCHARGES | Group< | Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS | The open tender PIIs payment surcharges (sum of payment cost and payment taxes) | |
LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_SURCHARGES | Group< | Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS | The limited tender PIIs payment surcharges (sum of payment cost and payment taxes) | |
OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_TOTAL | Group< | Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_BASEAMOUNT, Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_SURCHARGES | The open tender PIIs payment total amount (sum of payment base amount and payment surcharges) | |
LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_TOTAL | Group< | Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_BASEAMOUNT, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_SURCHARGES | The limited tender PIIs payment total amount (sum of payment base amount and payment surcharges) | |
PIIS_TO_BE_DELETED | Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS, Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES, Payment. |
| ||
SUBTOTALS | Group< |
|
| The payment sub totals |
TOTALS_COST | Cell< | Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_COSTS | The totals payment cost (cost includes taxes!) | |
TOTALS_NET_COST | Cell< | Payment.TOTALS_COST, Payment.TOTALS_TAX | The totals payment net cost | |
TOTALS_TAX | Cell< | Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES | The totals payment tax | |
TOTALS_SURCHARGES | Cell< | Payment.TOTALS_COST | The totals payment surcharges | |
TOTALS_COVERED_LIMITED | Cell< | Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_TOTAL | The totals payment amount covered by all payment instruments | |
TOTALS_COVERED_NET_LIMITED | Cell< | Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_TOTAL | The totals payment net amount covered by all payment instruments | |
TOTALS_COVERED | Cell< | Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_TOTAL, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_TOTAL | The totals payment amount covered by all payment instruments | |
TAX_GROUPED | Group< | Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_TAX_GROUPED, Payment.OPEN_TENDER_TAX_GROUPED | Separates the taxes amounts by its rates | |
LIMITED_TENDER_TAX_GROUPED | Group< | Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_RATES, Payment.LIMITED_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES |
| |
OPEN_TENDER_TAX_GROUPED | Group< | Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_RATES, Payment.OPEN_TENDER_PIIS_PAYMENT_TAXES |
|

The class Total bundles all totals values.

Name | Type | creating rule | dependsOn | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
TOTALS | Group< |
|
| Group totals defines the group of all totals cells |
TOTALS_DISCOUNT | Cell< | Shipping.TOTALS_DISCOUNT, Pli.SUBTOTALS_DISCOUNT, Order.VALUE_DISCOUNT | The totals of all discount | |
VALUE_DISCOUNT | Cell< | Pli.SUBTOTALS_DISCOUNT, Order.VALUE_DISCOUNT | The totals of all value discount (w/o shipping discount) | |
TOTALS_TAX_WITHOUT_PAYMENTTAX | Cell< | Order. | The totals tax = sum of all taxes without payment taxes | |
TOTALS_GROSS_WITHOUT_PAYMENTSURCHARGES | Cell< | Order.VALUE_GROSS, Shipping.TOTALS_GROSS, Shipping.TOTALS_DISCOUNT, Gifting.TOTALS_GROSS, Total.TOTALS_SURCHARGES | The totals gross without payment surcharges | |
TOTALS_GROSS_MINUS_LIMITED_PII | Cell< | Total.TOTALS_GROSS, Payment.TOTALS_COVERED_LIMITED | The totals gross = totals net + taxes | |
TOTALS_NET_MINUS_LIMITED_PII | Cell< | Total.TOTALS_NET, Payment.TOTALS_COVERED_NET_LIMITED | The totals net - limited PIIs | |
TOTALS_NET | Cell< | Total.TOTALS_GROSS, Total.TOTALS_TAX | The totals net = total gross - total tax | |
TOTALS_TAX | Cell< | Total.TOTALS_TAX_WITHOUT_PAYMENTTAX, Payment.TOTALS_TAX | The totals tax = sum of all taxes | |
TOTALS_GROSS | Cell< | Total.TOTALS_GROSS_WITHOUT_PAYMENTSURCHARGES, Payment.TOTALS_COST | The totals gross = sum of all items | |
TOTALS_SURCHARGES | Cell< | Shipping.PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS, Shipping.PLI_IMPORT_SURCHARGES_COSTS, Shipping.BUCKET_SURCHARGE_COSTS | The totals surcharges amount. Contains all PLI surcharges and shipping surcharges amounts | |
TOTALS_SURCHARGES_TAX | Cell< | Shipping.PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS_TAX, Shipping.BUCKET_PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS_TAX | Tax for all surcharges | |
PLI_TAX_GROUPED | Group< | Pli.TAX_GROUPED, Gifting.TAX_GROUPED | Separates the taxes amounts by its rates | |
DISCOUNTED_PLI_TAX_GROUPED | Group< | Total. | Grouped taxes discounted PLIs | |
DISCOUNTED_PLI_AND_SHIPPING_TAX_GROUPED | Group< | Total.DISCOUNTED_PLI_TAX_GROUPED, Shipping.TAX_GROUPED | Grouped taxes discounted PLIs plus shipping | |
TOTALS_TAX_GROUPED | Group< | Total.DISCOUNTED_PLI_AND_SHIPPING_TAX_GROUPED, Shipping.PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS_TAX_GROUPED, Shipping.BUCKET_PLI_SURCHARGES_COSTS_TAX_GROUPED, Payment.TAX_GROUPED | Grouped taxes discounted PLIs plus shipping plus payment | |
| Group< | Total.PLI_TAX_GROUPED, Order. | The value raw discounted tax = the sub totals tax * value discount rate | |
ORDER_SHIPPING_DISCOUNT | Cell< | Promotion. | The order shipping discount amount | |
BUCKET_SHIPPING_DISCOUNT | Cell< | Promotion. | The bucket shipping discount amount | |
ITEM_SHIPPING_DISCOUNT_RAW | Cell< | Promotion.PLI_DISCOUNTS_ONSHIPPING |
| |
ITEM_SHIPPING_DISCOUNT_MINUS_BUCKET_SHIPPING_DISCOUNT | Cell< | Total.ITEM_SHIPPING_DISCOUNT_RAW, Total.BUCKET_SHIPPING_DISCOUNT | The item shipping discount amount after subtraction of bucket shipping discount | |
ITEM_SHIPPING_DISCOUNT | Cell< | Total.ITEM_SHIPPING_DISCOUNT_MINUS_BUCKET_SHIPPING_DISCOUNT, Total.ORDER_SHIPPING_DISCOUNT | The final item shipping discount amount after subtraction of bucket and order shipping discount amount |

The class BonusPoint bundles all computed items for bonus points.

Name | Type | creating rule | dependsOn | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Group< | The bonus point product line items | ||
TOTALS_BPP | Cell< | The totals bonus point price | ||
TOTALS_BPV | Cell< | The totals bonus point value |

The class Warranty computes all computed items for the warranty responsibility.

Name | Type | creating rule | dependsOn | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| SubGroup< | Pli.ROOT_PLIS | The warranty product line items | |
FILTERED_PLIS | SubGroup< | Warranty.PLI_SINGLE_PRICES, Warranty. | The filtered warranty product line items (having a price) | |
PLI_SINGLE_PRICES | SubGroup< | Warranty. | The single prices for each warranty item | |
| SubGroup< | Pli.ROOT_PLIS, Warranty.FILTERED_PLIS | The quantity = quantity warranty item * quantity root item | |
| SubGroup< | Warranty.PLI_SINGLE_PRICES, Warranty. | The raw Gross prices = base price * quantity | |
PLI_GROSS_PRICES | SubGroup< | Warranty. | The rounded gross base price | |
PLI_NET_PRICES | SubGroup< | Warranty.PLI_GROSS_PRICES, Warranty.PLI_TAXES | The rounded net base price | |
PLI_RAW_TAXES | SubGroup< | Warranty.PLI_GROSS_PRICES, Pli.TAX_INCLUDED_RATES | The raw taxes for the warranty for each root item | |
PLI_TAXES | SubGroup< | Warranty.PLI_RAW_TAXES | The taxes for the warranty for each root item | |
TOTALS_GROSS | Cell< | Warranty.PLI_GROSS_PRICES | The total gross for all warranties | |
TOTALS_NET | Cell< | Warranty.TOTALS_GROSS, Warranty.TOTALS_TAX | The total net for all warranties | |
TOTALS_TAX | Cell< | Warranty.PLI_TAXES | The total tax for all warranties | |
TAX_GROUPED | Group< | Pli.TAX_RATES, Warranty.PLI_TAXES, Pli.ROOT_PLIS | Separates the taxes amounts by its rates |

The class Promotion calculates all computed items for discounts and promotion items.

Name | Type | creating rule | dependsOn | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
APPLIED_DISCOUNTS | GroupSet< |
|
| The applied discounts |
DYNAMIC_MESSAGE_DISCOUNTS | GroupSet< |
|
| The dynamic message discounts |
APPLIED_DISCOUNT_AMOUNTS | Group< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The applied discount amounts | |
APPLIED_DISCOUNTS_ONITEM | Group< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The applied discounts on item | |
| Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The dynamic message discounts on item | ||
PLI_DISCOUNTS_ONITEM | GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The PLI discounts on item | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The PLI single discounts on item | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The PLI discounted item target prices on item | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The PLI discounted item percentages on item | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The PLI discounted item quantities on item | |
APPLIED_DISCOUNTS_ONORDERVALUE | Group< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The applied discounts on order value | |
| Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The dynamic message discounts on order value | ||
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The order value discounts on order value | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. |
| |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The PLI discounts on order value | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The PLI single discounts on order value | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The PLI discounted item quantities on order value | |
BONUS_PRODUCTS_ONGIFT | GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The bonus products on gift | |
| Group< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The applied discounts on gift | |
| Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The dynamic message discounts on gift | ||
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The discounted item quantities on gift | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. |
| |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. |
| |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. |
| |
BONUS_PRODUCTS_ONHIDDENGIFT | GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The bonus products on hidden gift | |
| Group< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The applied discounts on hidden gift | |
| Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The dynamic message discounts on hidden gift | ||
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The discounted item quantities on hidden gift | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. |
| |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. |
| |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. |
| |
APPLIED_DISCOUNTS_ONSHIPPING | Group< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The applied discounts on shipping | |
| Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The dynamic message discounts on shipping | ||
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The order discounts on shipping | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The bucket discounts on shipping | |
PLI_DISCOUNTS_ONSHIPPING | GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The PLI discounts on shipping | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The shipping percentages on shipping | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The PLI discounted item quantities on shipping | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The PLI single discounts on shipping | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The PLI target prices on shipping | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The bucket target prices on shipping | |
| GroupSet< | Pli.FILTERED_PLIS, Pli.GROSS_BASE_PRICES, Pli.SINGLE_BASE_PRICES, Pli. | The order target prices on shipping |

The class Configuration calculates all configurable and customizable products.

Name | Type | creating rule | dependsOn | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| SubGroup< | Pli.ROOT_PLIS | The configuration product line items | |
FILTERED_PLIS | SubGroup< | Configuration.PLI_SINGLE_PRICES, Configuration. | The filtered configuration product line items (having a price) | |
PLI_SINGLE_PRICES | SubGroup< | Configuration. | The single prices for each configuration item | |
| SubGroup< | Pli.ROOT_PLIS, Configuration.FILTERED_PLIS | The quantity = quantity configuration * quantity root item | |
| SubGroup< | Configuration.PLI_SINGLE_PRICES, Configuration. | The raw gross prices = quantity * single price | |
PLI_GROSS_PRICES | SubGroup< | Configuration. | The rounded raw prices | |
TOTALS_GROSS | Cell< | Configuration.PLI_GROSS_PRICES | The total of all configuration items | |
PLI_TAXES | SubGroup< |
| The rounded taxes | |
PLI_TAX_RATES | SubGroup< | Configuration. | The taxes rates for each configuration item |

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.