---
id: '95fa7b57e1931139a9bb4253d10eac69'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/P23982'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:45.258992+00:00'
---
Sending mails is quite simple. But there are requirements to provide multiple implementations. Some customers want to:

Two cartridges are involved:

| for service-independent artifacts |
|---|---|
| for service implementations |

Please also have a look at the corresponding * cookbook *.

Service-independent artifacts are:

The business logic triggers sending a mail. The code must collect data for receivers, attachments. The `MailMgr`

provides methods to create such new data objects. The implementation of that manager interface creates transient data objects. These objects can be stored later by service implementations.

Name | Cartridge | Description |
|---|---|---|
SendMail |
| This pipelet does not use mail services at all; it is useful for administrator mails. It was available before Enfinity 6.4. |
ProcessMail |
| This pipelet has the same parameter as SendMail of core and is used to easily migrate existing pipelines. This pipelet uses the mail services attached to the current application. |
CreateMail |
| Creates a new mail data object with ISML templates. It is possible to use CMS components too, with a template containing the CMS SystemPageID. |
UpdateMail |
| Manipulates an existing mail. Content can be replaced with ISML template processing. |
SendMail |
| This pipelet sends the email via a configured mail service. The service can send the email asynchronously; the pipelet returns a |

SendMailService | interface to provide services to send emails |
|---|---|
MailResult | contains a sending status for each recipient; an aggregated status is also available (remember that email is an asynchronous medium, the status cannot contain any final delivery status. It is possible that the server sends a bounce message (full mailbox, unknown user)) |
Envelope | The envelope is an extension of the |

The SMTP service is a straightforward implementation of the mail service interface. The service implementation uses the ServiceChain to provide monitoring and logging capabilities - for more information see [Concept - Managed Service Framework](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1759446169/Concept+-+Managed+Service+Framework).

| adapter builds one service chain with the configured chain elements:
|
|---|---|
| send mails to an external SMTP server. Class is reused at PersistentMailService. |

The `SingleOperation`

adapter uses the service chain to provide logging and monitoring (usage of ChainElementID configuration).

There are two methods which are important for the use of the `SingleOperationAdapter`

:

Method | Function |
| the executor communicates with the external system and stores any information at the process envelope |
|---|---|
| triggers the execution of the chain and the execution of the executor at the end |
| returns the current configured executor (null - the configuration definition does not contain |

static class Adapter extends SingleOperationAdapter<Mail, MailResult> implements SendMailService { public Adapter(ServiceConfigurationBO serviceConfiguration) throws ConfigurationException { super(serviceConfiguration, SendMailService.class, METHOD_SEND); if (getExecutor() == null) { setExecutor(new SmtpProvider()); } } @Override public String getServiceID() { return getServiceConfiguration().getName(); } @Override public Envelope<Mail, MailResult> sendMail(Mail mail) { return invoke(mail); } }

The persistent mail service is an extension to the SMTP mail service. The service provides a configuration of the behavior. The options are defined as constants at `MailConstants`

.

Option | Description |
|---|---|
all | Stores all emails and email results at the database, but tries to send the email to the external SMTP service. |
onerror | Stores emails which are failed to send to the external SMTP service. |
no | Does not store any emails in the database. This option is comparable to the SmtpService. |
persist | Stores emails in the database |

Note

The `MailSendJob`

retries to send the failed emails. The option `persist`

indirectly disables this job. An additional project-specific job is necessary to send such persistent emails directly (without the configured mail service).

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.