---
id: '971950c82f50ec0efbfd025eb658a07c'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/29M909'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:39:50.563617+00:00'
---
*Intershop Order Management (IOM)* has the ability to change orders in certain statuses by creating change requests that can be applied to an order. This document describes the general process, status model and limitations of IOM's order changes.

The target audience of this concept are consultants.

Order change requests pass through a defined business process.

The business process flow is as follows:

Once the change request successfully passed validations and security checks, it will be stored with the status `OPEN`

and any other processing of the order will be stopped. This happens synchronously within the REST call.

Info

`ACCEPTED`

; always.`APPLIED`

and the order continues processing if no further open change requests exist.Order change requests are aligned to a defined status model, that will be explained in this section.

The following table explains the currently available statuses:

| Status | Comment |
|---|---|
| OPEN | The change request was successfully created. START-STATE |
| ACCEPTED | The change request was accepted. All approvals are accepted (or none are required). |
| APPLIED | The change request was successfully applied to the order. END-STATE |
| FAILED_TO_APPLY | Applying the change request failed because of one or more reasons. END-STATE |

This state model explains the currently available statuses and transitions.

The order change feature will be enhanced stepwise. Therefore there are limitations because of not yet implemented enhancements.

The following list of known limitations should be considered:

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.