---
id: '979fde579e8f0b65cd065cc4988cee63'
title: 'Reference'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/Y30644'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:38:40.922087+00:00'
---
**Receive transmission of type CREATE_DOCUMENT **receives a transmission type CREATE_DOCUMENT and initiates the document creation process.

**Create document objects**. According to the configuration of the received transmission and the configuration of the document transformation, the individual document objects for the different document types are created to initiate the creation process for each document type. Using the document transformation configuration, it is possible to define one or more document types in different formats and layouts for each transmission type and sales channel, and fulfillment channel combination.

**Set document actions CREATE, SAVE, and SENT**. The actions CREATE, and SENT are controlling the processing steps during the document creation process. It is possible to create new documents, send existing documents or control the process if documents should be sent or are available only locally.

**Action CREATE? **Checks if the action CREATE is set for the document to create the document.

YES: The document must be created.

NO: The document will not be created.


**Create document** creates the document according to the document transformation configuration and a given stylesheet. [Overview - IOM Document Creation](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1839341012/Overview+-+IOM+Document+Creation)



**Save document to file system **stores the created document to the file system.

**Action SENT?** Checks if the action SENT is set for the document to transfer the document to a 3rd party system.

YES: The document must be passed to a 3rd party system.

NO: The document must not be passed to a 3rd party system.


**Check document status** checks whether the document is validated or not.

YES: The document has been validated and the status CHECKED is set. Refer to [IOM Document Status Model](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48093102141/IOM+Document+Status+Model).

NO: The document is in status INITIAL and must be validated.


**Validate document** validates the document against pre-defined business rules.

OK: The validation was successful.

NO: The validation failed.


**Set document status CHECKED** sets the status of the document to CHECKED to indicate that the document has been successfully validated.

**Set document state to NOT_CHECKED** sets the status of the document to NOT_CHECKED to indicate that the validation of the document has failed.

**Handle errors**

**Create document transmission** creates a document transmission to initiate the transmission process of the document to a 3rd party system.

**Process document transmission and send document** is processed according the document transmission configuration and the document is sent to a 3rd party system.