---
id: '98b8d1e95e032cebb55b7e5127ab444a'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/30669A'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:03.994633+00:00'
---
Intershop provides the base images of all current products as Docker images. These Docker images can be downloaded by authorized users and used for development and testing.

This guide explains how to connect to the Intershop Docker Registry to download an Intershop Docker image.

Intershop provides all Docker images in a Docker registry.

Docker registry URL: [https://docker.tools.intershop.com](https://docker.tools.intershop.com)

Use the *Login via OIDC Provider* button. This redirects you to the OIDC Provider for authentication. The current OIDC Provider is Microsoft.

You need an authorized Microsoft account to log in successfully. After the OIDC provider has authenticated you, you are redirected back to the Docker registry. If you are having trouble logging in, please contact Intershop Support.

After successful login, you will see the Docker Registry start page.

The Docker CLI cannot handle redirection for OIDC, so our Docker registry provides a CLI secret to use when logging in from Docker.

Navigate to the *User Profile* settings.

Copy the username and the CLI secret or generate a new one:

Insert your username as the username and your CLI secret as the password to execute a Docker login:

docker login docker.tools.intershop.com -u XXX@user-intershop.de -p SuperStrongCLISecret

**Note**: Upper and lower case in the name are to be observed!

After the successful login, an image can be pulled.

Run one of the following example commands to pull an image:

docker pull docker.tools.intershop.com/icm/intershophub/icm-as:X.X.X docker pull docker.tools.intershop.com/iom/intershophub/iom:X.X.X

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.