---
id: '991f9ab584256f3fc2a71e421c52c64a'
title: 'Managing Content Files'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3247M9'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:52.897681+00:00'
---
# Managing Content Files

Managing content files involves uploading and deleting files.

## Uploading Content Files

-
Select the intended management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Content Upload.
This displays the content upload directory structure of the selected context and the files contained in each directory.
-
In the
*Select language*field, choose the locale where you want to upload files and click Apply. - Select the directory where you want to upload the file.
-
In the
*Upload File*field, click Choose File to locate the file. -
Click Upload.
The uploaded file is displayed in the current content directory.Note:Intershop Commerce Management checks whether extensions of files to be uploaded into the content directory correspond to the preconfigured white list and match the content associated with the file extensions. The default file extensions of attachments are pdf, txt, jpg, jpeg, jpe, gif, png, bmp, webp, avif, svg, ico, tif, tiff, zip.

## Deleting Content Files

-
Select the intended management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Content Upload.
This displays the content upload directory structure of the selected context and the files contained in each directory.
-
In the
*Select language*field, choose the locale from where you want to delete files and click Apply. - Select the directory containing files to be deleted.
-
Select the check boxes of the files you want to delete.
Note:You can use the Content Search field to search for the files by name or file extension. Alternatively, you can select all files in the current directory by clicking Select All.
-
Click Delete and confirm the operation.
The files have been deleted from the directory.