---
id: '9941b6ecf13ec46f3a85cc77063e097f'
title: 'Video Tutorial - Promotions Part 4'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/G28489'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:41.338610+00:00'
---
This document replaces the outdated article with the ID *23B366* and the title *Video Tutorials: Promotions with Intershop 7*.

Promotions are an important marketing instrument with the intention to push the sales and to increase the customer satisfaction. A promotion applies to predefined customer segments, products and time periods. Specific discounts like reduced prices, bonus products, free shipping etc. can be offered via a promotion. This video tutorial gives an introduction to the promotion detail text and shows how to configure it.

Container, visible in the upper part of the Storefront


Open the container in the content structure tree and select the *Content Group Slot*.

In newer ICM versions, select the slot where the promotion detail text should be visible. To make the slot editable, *Overwrite *needs to be clicked.

Select *Common - Title* as the *Template*, because the slot is within a common section of the standard home page.

In newer ICM versions, the template *Common - Title *is no longer available. It is possible to use the template *Free Style HTML* instead.

Enter the *Title*, select the *Title Type* and click on *Apply*.

If you are using the template *Free Style HTML*, simply add the title in the text box under *HTML* and click *Apply *instead.

Select *Common - Advanced Tooltip* as the *Template*.

In newer ICM versions, the template *Common - Advanced Tooltip** *is no longer available.

Close the window and take a look at the result. A new component was added to the content group slot and its information is visible in the container of the storefront.

The priority can be changed by using the drag and drop function of the content structure tree.

Open the component for the advanced tooltip and select its *Content Group Slot*.

The promotion information, which will be included in the popup message, must be defined here.

Select *Common - Freestyle HTML Text *as *Template*.

In newer ICM versions, the template *Common - Freestyle HTML *is renamed to *Free Style HTML*.

Fill the text box with promotion information.

Select the *Content Group Slot *components of the *Container - Promotion *and assign the promotion.

Only the title component and the advanced tooltip component must be connected with the promotion.

Therefore, switch to the tab *Properties* and click on the *Assign... *button under *Promotion*.

In newer ICM versions, this configuration cannot be done here. Instead, the components need to be connected to the promotion through the data view. For that, please do the following steps:

Click on *Apply & Refresh*.

In newer ICM versions, the *Apply & Refresh* button is replaced with an *OK *button.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.