---
id: '9a51f892b35555bc5ba2dbae4201c617'
title: 'Customer Profile'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32505U'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:37.303709+00:00'
---
# Customer Profile

Upon registration, customers are associated with a customer profile. The customer profile aggregates the following types of information:

-
General Information

The available information depends on the customer type.

-
For individual customers, it includes customer ID, title, first name, last name, date of birth, phone/fax number(s), e-mail address/login data, preferred language and the activation status.

-
For business customers, the general information includes customer ID, company name, taxation ID, industry, description and the activation status.


-
-
Attributes

Attributes can hold any custom, customer-specific data.

-
Address Information

Each registered customer has at least one address. This address cannot be deleted and is referred to as the customer's

*Contact Address*. An unlimited number of additional addresses can be created as needed. -
Orders

The Orders tab of the customer profile provides a list of orders placed by the current customer (and, if applicable, its users). Clicking the order number displays details of the respective order.

-
Customer Segments

Each registered customer is member of one or more customer segments. The profile displays customer segments to which the customer is assigned, and provides a link to update customer segment assignments for this customer. For details, see

[Customer Segments](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/customer_management/concept_customer_segments.html). -
Users (business customers only)

For business customers, Intershop Commerce Management allows for managing individual users.


For details about managing customers, see [Customer Management: Tasks](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/customer_management/customer_management_0.html).

For details about exporting/importing customers, see [Customer Import and Export](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/customer_management/topic_customer_import_and_export.html#task_cons_impex).