---
id: '9a72c4c2c315565f7454c7b73132d534'
title: 'Deleting Import/Export Files'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/33637T'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:08.450635+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Organization Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/33637T

# Deleting Import/Export Files

In order to save system resources in the Intershop Commerce Management system, you should delete uploaded import files after the import process has been completed, and delete export files after you have downloaded and saved them. To do so:
-
In the navigation bar, select Import & Export.
The overview page is displayed.

-
In the Import Files row, click Upload to delete import files or Download to delete export files.
This shows either the list of files that have been uploaded or the list of files that have been exported.

-
Select the file to be deleted.
Check the box in the row of the file you intend to delete.

-
Click Delete, then OK to confirm the deletion.
The selected file is removed from the Intershop Commerce Management system.


## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.