---
id: '9b804112789d6a67d2cef38264a218a3'
title: 'Managing Variation Product Sorting'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32295R'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:37.058061+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/32295R

# Managing Variation Product Sorting

Based on the variation attributes, catalog managers can define the display order of variation products within the variation master. To do so:
-
Locate the variation master whose variation products you intend to sort.
Use the advanced search and select

Variation Master as product type. For details, see

[Locating Products](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/task_locating_products.html).

-
Click the name of the product.
The General tab of the Standard Product dialog is displayed.

-
Change to the Variations tab.
This displays all variation attributes and variation products that have already been defined.

-
In the Presequence products drop-down box, select the sorting attribute.
The available attributes include product name and ID as well as the defined variable variation attributes.

-
Select the sorting order.
The available options are ascending and descending.

-
Click Apply.
The new display order is applied immediately.


## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.