---
id: '9c72c40532b2d19bfc4649efba9f1374'
title: 'Support Article'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2P8790'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:22.192271+00:00'
---
This document replaces the outdated article with the ID 94L13 and the title *Information to Provide when Opening a New Intershop Customer Support Incident*.

This article is meant to serve as a checklist for opening Technical Support & Service Desk tickets. By providing the following information, our engineers can resolve tickets more quickly.

A new ticket can be opened by using the web forms on the Service Portal under [Request Something or Contact Support](https://service.intershop.com/).

Please provide as much information as possible from the list below. Please see also the [Additional Hints](https://knowledge.intershop.com#SupportArticle-CreatingaNewTicketforIntershop'sTechnicalSupportandServiceDeskTeam-AdditionalHints).

*1. Administrative Information*

*2. Technical Information*

Please provide:

Optionally provide a priority.

*3. Content-related information*

Information regarding an issue

If not, attach the error messages and / or the log files.

The following numbers refer to the subsections of *Necessary Information* above:

2.1 You find the Intershop product version at the following places:

INTERSHOP 7: in the SMC site after having logged in

INTERSHOP 7, Gradle based versions see or send the $IS_HOME and $IS_SHARE ivy.xml for "revision" number of the <info> tag AND the "rev" number of the <dependency org="com.intershop.assembly"...> tag.

2.2 For example, Platform, SLES 12 or Windows 2018 Server

2.3 For example, Platform or Oracle/MSSQL Client / Oracle/MSSQL Server 11.2.0.3

3.1 For example, "Transmission Problems" error messages in the Browser (Storefront)

3.2 For example, the error message: "... no configuration service for request ..." in *webadapter.log*

The most important log files are located in the following places:

INTERSHOP 7: *$IS_SHARE/share/system/log* (error-*.log, debug-*.log), *$IS_HOME/webadapter/log* (*webadapter.log*), *$IS_HOME/log* (*appserver#.log*)

some older Linux systems: */var/opt/intershop/eserver1/log/*...

For Platform see below:


3.3 For example, the error message "... no configuration service for request ..." indicates that the appliction server can't be contacted, maybe it isn't started? Solution: start the Application Server

3.4 Please compress log files before you attach them to an e-mail. Alternatively, when the log file size is bigger than 6 MB, upload the archived log files to the Intershop Customer Support FTP server.

3.5. For example

** Steps to repeat:**

1. In B2B, create a Pricelist PL1, assigned "Everyone" as target group

2. Choose a product (e.g. 10809311) and add a pricelist price for our pricelist of 333 USD for 1 item (click "Special Prices to add the price")

3. Check the storefont, search for G3610 and see that the price is 333 USD (OK)

4. Login as pmiller and see that the price is now 993 (WRONG)

5. Log out again, price is 333 (OK)

Sometimes, problems occur when trying to change configuration parameters or add functionality to the system. Do not just tell the support engineer about the problem but also about the goal you have in mind. Sometimes, a different approach can lead to better results and avoid problems.

We also provide web forms below the *Tickets* section to address recurring topics. These web forms collect all the required information and should be used to avoid additional questions and speed up the process

The forms should contain all the required information. Please find a detailed description in our knowledge base [FAQ - How to Use Our Service Portal](https://service.intershop.com/csm/en/faq-how-to-use-our-service-portal?id=kb_article_view&sys_kb_id=78bd1885c3e7b5501264d42f0501315f).

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.