---
id: '9d5668bd667dd28e68f76c25eed4d488'
title: 'Creating Sales Organization'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/336S50'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:00.692215+00:00'
---
# Creating Sales Organization

-
In the navigation bar, select Sales Organizations.
A list of all sales organizations in the system is displayed.
-
Click New.
The Sales Organization dialog is displayed.
-
Fill in the fields under the General tab.
The table below lists the available fields.
Table 1. General sales organization data Field Description Name The name used to identify the organization. Can be up to 35 characters in length and can include special characters and numbers. This field is mandatory. Organization ID A system ID for the organization. Can be up to 35 characters in length and can consist of the alphanumeric characters a-z and 0-9. It must not contain any spaces or special characters. This field is mandatory. The system uses the value as name for the site created for the new organization. Online (checkbox) Sets the online status of the organization. Checked: all users can access the organization; unchecked: organization cannot be accessed. Description Information describing the organization. Can be up to 256 characters in length and can include special characters and numbers. -
Click Apply.
The sales organization is created and the Contact Info, Attributes, Branding, Payment and Services (if any) tabs become active.
Under each tab, you can now add the appropriate information as required. For details about the tab data, see

[Editing Sales Organization](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/oma_en/topics/managing_organizations/task_editing_sales_organization.html).