---
id: '9d765e8ed67a2a4abf3546f4e9c33640'
title: 'Guide - Intershop PWA'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3K1105'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:41.351333+00:00'
---
Important

To use the Co-Browse functionality ICM version 11.8.0 or above is needed.

This document describes the authentication mechanism if the co-browse identity provider is used to enable an agent to log in on behalf of a user.

If you need an introduction regarding authentication in the PWA, read the [Authentication Concept](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/g/intershop/intershop-pwa/blob/develop/docs/concepts/authentication.md) first.

The co-browse functionality is needed for the Intershop Customer Engagement Center (CEC).

In this application a contact center agent can start a "co-browsing" storefront session.

That means, the agent is logged in to the PWA on behalf of the user.

Technically a special identity provider (the co-browse identity provider) is needed to handle the authentication of the user with the help of an authentication token that is provided by the CEC as an URL parameter.

The PWA must be configured in a specific way to use co-browse as an identity provider.

The following configuration can be added to the Angular CLI `environment.ts`

files for development purposes:

```
identityProvider: 'CoBrowse',
identityProviders: {
'CoBrowse': {
type: 'cobrowse',
}
},
```

Warning

This configuration enables the `Co-Browse`

identity provider as the one and only configured global identity provider, meaning the standard ICM identity provider used for the standard login is no longer configured and the standard login will no longer work.

As mentioned above, this configuration example is only relevant for development purposes.

For production-like deployments, the PWA has to be be configured to use the `Co-Browse`

identity provider only when the user enters the `cobrowse`

route.

This can be configured with the `OVERRIDE_IDENTITY_PROVIDERS`

environment variable (see [Override Identity Providers by Path](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/g/intershop/intershop-pwa/blob/develop/docs/guides/nginx-startup.md#override-identity-providers-by-path)) for the NGINX container.

Nevertheless, the SSR process needs to be provided with the co-browse identity provider configuration as one of the available identity providers.

In this way, the global `identityProvider`

configuration is left to be the default ICM configuration.

The following is a sample co-browse identity provider configuration for `docker-compose`

that enables the co-browse identity provider on the `cobrowse`

route only.

```
pwa:
environment:
IDENTITY_PROVIDERS: |
CoBrowse:
type: cobrowse
nginx:
environment:
OVERRIDE_IDENTITY_PROVIDERS: |
.+:
- path: /cobrowse
type: CoBrowse
```

For the current PWA Helm Chart that is also used in the PWA Flux deployments, the same co-browse configuration would look like this:

```
environment:
- name: IDENTITY_PROVIDERS
value: |
{
"CoBrowse": {"type": "cobrowse"}
}
cache:
extraEnvVars:
- name: OVERRIDE_IDENTITY_PROVIDERS
value: |
.+:
- path: /cobrowse
type: CoBrowse
```

Important

Be aware that the `OVERRIDE_IDENTITY_PROVIDERS`

configuration has to match a potentially used `multiChannel`

configuration.

```
environment:
- name: IDENTITY_PROVIDERS
value: |
{
"CoBrowse": {"type": "cobrowse"}
}
cache:
extraEnvVars:
- name: OVERRIDE_IDENTITY_PROVIDERS
value: |
.+:
- path: /en/cobrowse
type: CoBrowse
- path: /de/cobrowse
type: CoBrowse
- path: /fr/cobrowse
type: CoBrowse
- path: /b2c/cobrowse
type: CoBrowse
multiChannel: |
.+:
- baseHref: /en
channel: default
lang: en_US
- baseHref: /de
channel: default
lang: de_DE
- baseHref: /fr
channel: default
lang: fr_FR
- baseHref: /b2c
channel: default
theme: b2c
```

A user can log in by navigating to the `/cobrowse`

route.

For this purpose, the query param `access-token`

needs to be added to the given route.

When the login is successful the call center agent user is logged in on behalf of a customer.

The catalogs and products, prices, promotions, content etc. are displayed to the agent in the same way as to the user.

Each authentication token has a predefined lifetime.

That means, the token has to be refreshed to prevent it from expiring.

Once 75% of the token's lifetime have passed ( this time can be configured in the oAuth library), an info event is emitted.

This event is used to call the [refresh mechanism setupRefreshTokenMechanism$](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/develop/src/app/core/services/token/token.service.ts) of the oAuth configuration service and the authentication token will be renewed.

When the user logs out by clicking the logout link or navigating to the `/logout`

route, the configured [ logout()](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/develop/src/app/core/identity-provider/co-browse.identity-provider.ts) function will be executed, which will call the

`revokeApiToken()`

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.