---
id: '9d95d55ad3337ac6cd42e1ac5f9f46c9'
title: 'Feature List'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/29C762'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:38:51.773251+00:00'
---
This document describes feature of the BI-Data-Service. The BI Data Service provides various data as output.

As this product is a data service, the retrievable data are considered as features. Available are:

Order data

Product data

Order states (are contained in the order data)

The following data is provided:

First and last name of the buyer

Creation date

Currency

Customer and their ID

Document number

Total in gross and net and their tax

JSON value how it was delivered from Intershop Commerce Management

Order state

Order URN (the unique identifier for the order including the channel and organization)

List of shipping buckets

Used payment method

Used promotions (e.g. limited tenders like vouchers)

List of Product Line Items

Shipping method id

Name of the product

SKU

Quantity

Single gross and net price

Product ID (consists of SKU and channel)

Payment base amount

Payment total amount

Payment ID

The order states are delivered via an own Microservice and are taken from Intershop Order Management. You can specify an interval which determines how often the order states are updated.

SKU

Name

Short description

Image link

Default category and name

The category path of the product (a list)

List of assigned categories

Creation date (from this Microservice and not from Intershop Commerce Management)

Last update (from this Microservice and not from Intershop Commerce Management)

The last two values *creation date* and *last update* can be used to check whether a product was available in a specific period of time, for example to calculate the best/slow sellers in this time

Name

Path ID

URI (for accessing via REST)

Title

URI

You can access the data with any tool which supports access to the SQL server database. For that you need the server location, the username and the password. These information will be generated while running through the on-boarding process and provided by the R2D2-Team (and later by the Cloud Operations Team).

For example if you want to access the data within Power BI, you can use the [DirectQuery](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/desktop-use-directquery).

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.