---
id: '9db56604b501fb91b163a6b35e2c29c5'
title: 'Exporting and Importing Image Meta Data'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32R329'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:23.381586+00:00'
---
# Exporting and Importing Image Meta Data

Note:

The tasks described in this section are performed in the context of the organization or a partner channel.

## Exporting Image Meta Data

To export image meta data:

-
Select the intended management context from the context selection box, then select Catalogs | Import & Export.
This displays the Import & Export overview page.
-
In the Image Views, Image Types and Image Sets (XML) row, click Export.
The export configuration dialog is displayed.
-
Specify a name for the export file and select what data to export.
Mark the intended checkboxes for image views, image types and image sets.
-
Click Export.
The export process is started immediately. The Import & Export Status dialog is displayed.
-
Download the export file.
For details, see
[Downloading Catalog Export Files](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/topic_catalogproduct_data_importexport.html#task_pim_impex_cat_dl).

## Importing Image Meta Data

To import image meta data:

-
Select the intended management context from the context selection box, then select Catalogs | Import & Export.
This displays the Import & Export overview page.
-
Upload the file to be imported.
For details, see
[Uploading Catalog/Product Data for Import](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/topic_catalogproduct_data_importexport.html#task_pim_impex_cat_upl). -
In the Image Views, Image Types and Image Sets (XML) row, click Import.
A list of files that can be imported is displayed.
-
Select file to import, then click Next.
The import file is now validated. When successful, the number of image views, image types and image sets is displayed. In case of errors, error messages are generated. You can also download the log file.
-
Select the import mode.
The available import modes include OMIT, IGNORE, UPDATE, REPLACE, DELETE, and INITIAL. For import mode details, see
[Standard Import Modes](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/concept_catalog_import_and_export.html#con_cat_impex_modes). -
Click Import.
The import process is started immediately. The Import & Export Status dialog is displayed.