---
id: '9dbd6a731fec9fd380723cd9710cde03'
title: 'Adding Apps and Modules'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/41287R'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:30:28.815583+00:00'
---
# Adding Apps and Modules

You can add apps and modules to users in the *User management* module. The following options are available:

- Adding an app and all related modules,
- Adding an app and a selection of related modules,
- Adding an app without any modules,Note:In case of the
*Admin Center*, the app may be visible, but its functionality will not be accessible. Conversely, some apps may contain basic functionality, such as viewing rights, that can be used even without adding additional modules. - Adding just a module subsequently.

The first three options are described in [Adding Apps to a User](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iap/master/iac_en/iac/user_management/topic_adding_apps_and_modules.html#task_adding_apps_and_modules_to_a_user) while the latter one is covered in [Adding Modules to a User](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iap/master/iac_en/iac/user_management/topic_adding_apps_and_modules.html#task_adding_modules_to_a_user).

## Adding Apps to a User

This section describes how to add an app to users from the *User management* module. You can either add the selected app along with all its modules, with some of the related modules only, or the app alone.

To add an app to a user:

-
Navigate to the user detail page, see
[Viewing User Details](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iap/master/iac_en/iac/user_management/task_viewing_user_details.html). -
Click + Add apps (or the + Add app link if no app has been assigned yet).
The corresponding dialog opens.
-
Click on the list item (i.e., the app), on subordinate list items (i.e., modules) via the arrow icon , or click on the checkbox in front:
- Selecting a module leads to the related app being selected along with it.
- It is possible to select all the modules, only some of them, or the app only.
- It is not possible to select only modules without the related app.

The selected list items have an active state and the Add button is enabled. -
Click the Add button (or discard this process by clicking the Close button).
The dialog closes and a confirmation message appears. The app and all selected modules are displayed.

## Adding Modules to a User

This section describes how to add a module to users from the *User management* module. This may be required in case the module in question is to be added at a later point in time.

Precondition is that the related app has already been assigned to the user in question. For details, see [Adding Apps to a User](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iap/master/iac_en/iac/user_management/topic_adding_apps_and_modules.html#task_adding_apps_and_modules_to_a_user).

To add a module to a user:

-
Navigate to the user detail page, see
[Viewing User Details](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iap/master/iac_en/iac/user_management/task_viewing_user_details.html). -
Click the
*More*icon (...) of the app where the desired module belongs to.A drop-down menu opens. -
Click Add modules in the drop-down menu.
The corresponding dialog opens.
- Click on the desired module or click on its checkbox.
-
Click the Add button (or discard this process by clicking the Close button).
The dialog closes and a confirmation message appears. The selected module is displayed in the panel of the app.