---
id: '9e7a89c7c999998e12bb5653300db536'
title: 'Managing Recycle Bin and Product Deletion'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32E286'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:35.113777+00:00'
---
# Managing Recycle Bin and Product Deletion

Note:

Recycle bin and product deletion preferences are defined in the context of the organization. They are, however, not only applied to master products, but also take effect across all channels. Also note that with the recycle bin enabled, the product deletion preferences are overridden, or that the product deletion preferences have no effect if the recycle bin is enabled, respectively.

To manage preferences for the product deletion and the recycle bin:

-
Select the organization from the context selection box, then select Preferences.
This displays the Preferences overview page.
-
Select Product Deletion.
The Product Deletion details page is displayed.
- Select the radio button to activate or deactivate the recycle bin.
-
For either setting, select the required option.
For the activated recycle bin, the following options are available:For the deactivated recycle bin, the following product deletion options are available:
Table 1. Recycle bin preferences Option Description Selected products and their derived offers are moved to the recycle bin. Propagates the removal operation not only to the current product but to all products derived from the current product via syndication in other repositories. Selected products are moved to the recycle bin. Their derived offers are converted to offered products without any back reference to their deleted products. Deletes the syndication relation between the current product and the derived products. Only the current product is moved to the recycle bin, whereas the derived products are kept as they are. Table 2. Product deletion options Option Description Forbid deletion of master products with offers. If a product has derived products in other products, deleting the product is impossible. Delete master products only. Convert related offers into products and keep them. This deletes the syndication relation between a products and its derived products. The sourcer products is deleted, while the derived products are retained. Delete master products and related offers. This propagates the deletion process to all derived products. -
Click Apply to save your settings.
Otherwise, click Reset to discard your changes.