---
id: '9fe792ef61d8dc5fe395fc676a22e209'
title: 'Public Release Note'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/30N414'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:38:43.458060+00:00'
---
Welcome to the IOM Helm Charts 2.1.

IOM is delivered as Docker images which are dedicated to run in Kubernetes. Intershop also provides Helm Charts for IOM, which allow to easily operate the system.

For the best compatibility between IOM Helm charts and IOM, please always use the newest version of IOM Helm charts, regardless of the IOM version you are currently using. To do so, please update IOM Helm charts as often as possible.

| Helm \ IOM | 3.0 | 3.1 | 3.2 | 3.3 | 3.4 | 3.5 | 3.6 | 3.7 | 4.0 | 4.1 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 2.1.X | 1), 2), 3), 4), 5), 6), 7), 8) | 4), 6), 7), 8) | 5), 6), 7), 8) | 6), 7), 8) | 7), 8) | 8) | 9) | |||
| 2.0.X | 1), 2), 3), 4), 5), 6), 7), 8) | 4), 6), 7), 8) | 5), 6), 7), 8) | 6), 7), 8) | 7), 8) | 8) | 9) | x | ||
| 1.6.X | 1), 2), 3), 4), 5), 6), 7), 8) | 4), 6), 7), 8) | 5), 6), 7), 8) | 6), 7), 8) | 7), 8) | 8) | 9) | x | x | |
| 1.5.X | 1), 2), 3), 4), 5), 6), 7), 8) | 4), 6), 7), 8) | 5), 6), 7), 8) | 6), 7), 8) | 7), 8) | 8) | x | x | x | |
| 1.4.X | 1), 2), 3), 4), 5), 6), 7) | 4), 6), 7) | 5), 6), 7) | 6), 7) | 7) | x | x | x | x | |
| 1.3.0 | 1), 2), 3), 4), 5), 6) | 4), 6) | 5), 6) | 6) | x | x | x | x | x | |
| 1.2.1 | 1), 2), 3), 4), 5) | 4), 5) | 5) | x | x | x | x | x | x | |
| 1.2.0 | 1), 2), 3), 4) | 4) | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | |
| 1.1.0 | 1) | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | |
| 1.0.0 | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x |


1) Defect [IOM-10458](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/IOM-10458) still occurs in this combination

2) Helm parameter for timeout of test-data import does not work in this combination

3) Helm parameter to control creation of access log does not work in this combination

4) Defect [IOM-10362](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/IOM-10362) still occurs in this combination

5) Defect [IOM-10891](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/IOM-10891) still occurs in this combination

6) Helm parameters to control Datadog APM do not work in this combination

7) Helm parameter `jboss.nodePrefix`

does not work in this combination

8) Helm parameters `log.rest, config.skip*`

*,* `oms.db.connectionMonitor.*`

, `oms.db.connectTimeout`

do not work in this combination.

9) Helm parameter `jboss.activemqClientPoolSizeMax`

does not work in this combination

x) Not supported

| Term | Description |
|---|---|
| Docker | An OS-level virtualization software. |
| Helm | A package manager for Kubernetes. |
| IOM | The abbreviation for Intershop Order Management |
| Kubernetes | An open-source system for automating deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications. |

The new default value of *dbaccount.image.tag* is "`1.4.0`

", which enables the usage of the newest release of the *iom-dbaccount* image.

The new Helm parameter *jboss.javaOptsAppend* has been added, which allows to define Java options without the need to overwrite the default value provided by *jboss.javaOpts*. This change will reduce migration efforts in future since users do not have to track changes of default values and re-apply them to their individual settings.

*jboss.javaOptsAppend* is empty per default.

The Helm Chart of the integrated Malihog sub-chart has been updated to version 5.0.6.

The Helm chart of the integrated NGINX ingress controller has been updated to version 4.0.19.

The IOM Helm templates have been updated to Helm version 3.8.1.

The liveness and readiness probes of Mailhog are producing a lot of messages. Now it is possible to disable these probes, which avoids the creation of the messages. Therefore, the new Helm parameter *mailhog.probes.enabled* has been added. Its default value is *true*.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.