---
id: 'a00482953656fca607fe9e0285c07f1e'
title: 'Public Release Note'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3P0048'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:39:32.370829+00:00'
---
Welcome to the IOM Helm Charts 1.6.

IOM is delivered via Docker images which are dedicated to run in Kubernetes. Intershop also provides Helm Charts for IOM, which allow to easily operate IOM.

For the best compatibility between IOM Helm charts and IOM, please always use the newest version of IOM Helm charts, regardless of the IOM version you are currently using. To do so, please update IOM Helm charts as often as possible.

| Helm \ IOM | 3.0 | 3.1 | 3.2 | 3.3 | 3.4 | 3.5 | 3.6 | 3.7 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 1.6.X | 1), 2), 3), 4), 5), 6), 7), 8) | 4), 6), 7), 8) | 5), 6), 7), 8) | 6), 7), 8) | 7), 8) | 8) | 9) | |
| 1.5.X | 1), 2), 3), 4), 5), 6), 7), 8) | 4), 6), 7), 8) | 5), 6), 7), 8) | 6), 7), 8) | 7), 8) | 8) | x | |
| 1.4.X | 1), 2), 3), 4), 5), 6), 7) | 4), 6), 7) | 5), 6), 7) | 6), 7) | 7) | x | x | |
| 1.3.0 | 1), 2), 3), 4), 5), 6) | 4), 6) | 5), 6) | 6) | x | x | x | |
| 1.2.1 | 1), 2), 3), 4), 5) | 4), 5) | 5) | x | x | x | x | |
| 1.2.0 | 1), 2), 3), 4) | 4) | x | x | x | x | x | |
| 1.1.0 | 1) | x | x | x | x | x | x | |
| 1.0.0 | x | x | x | x | x | x | x |


1) Defect [IOM-10458](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/IOM-10458) still occurs in this combination

2) Helm parameter for timeout of test-data import does not work in this combination

3) Helm parameter to control creation of access log does not work in this combination

4) Defect [IOM-10362](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/IOM-10362) still occurs in this combination

5) Defect [IOM-10891](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/IOM-10891) still occurs in this combination

6) Helm parameters to control Datadog APM do not work in this combination

7) Helm parameter *jboss.nodePrefix* does not work in this combination

8) Helm parameters *log.rest, config.skip*,* *oms.db.connectionMonitor.**, *oms.db.connectTimeout* do not work in this combination.

9) Helm parameter *jboss.activemqClientPoolSizeMax* does not work in this combination

x) Not supported

| Term | Description |
|---|---|
| Docker | An OS-level virtualization software. |
| Helm | A package manager for Kubernetes. |
| IOM | The abbreviation for Intershop Order Management |
| Kubernetes | An open-source system for automating deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications. |

The Helm parameter *jboss.activemqClientPoolSizeMax* was introduced to enable the configuration of the size of the ActiveMQs client thread pool.

Key | Summary |
|---|---|
|

Key | Summary |
|---|---|
|

The default value of Helm parameter *persistence.annotations* was changed to avoid the deletion of according storage on *helm delete*. According to [https://helm.sh/docs/topics/charts_hooks/](https://helm.sh/docs/topics/charts_hooks/) a second annotation *helm.sh/resource-policy: keep* was added. Before the current version of *IOM Helm Charts*, the predefined value was *"helm.sh/hook": pre-install* only. If you need the previous behavior for any reason, you have to overwrite the current default value.

The new default value implies that the persistent volume cannot be deleted manually any longer. If you need to delete it manually, you have to remove the finalizers manually by running:`kubectl patch pv <pv_name> -p '{"metadata":{"finalizers":null}}'`


Key | Summary |
|---|---|
|

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.