---
id: 'a0539025ec1264e18d7448448a75d7cc'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2Y8585'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:38:26.627715+00:00'
---
The present document lists all personal data that might be recorded, processed and submitted from a web shop to the Intershop Order Management (IOM).

Note

**Web tracking**

As an operator of an IOM-based web shop one may use additional web tracking (e.g., Google Analytics, Piwik, Open Web Analytics or similar). Be aware that you have to inform your customers about the personal data, which is recorded and submitted to such third party service. Be also aware that such information is not part of the present document.

A web shop operator may use the present document as a blueprint for the web shop's *Data Protection Declaration*.

The operators of these pages take the protection of your personal data very seriously. We treat your personal data confidentially and in accordance with the statutory data protection regulations and this data protection declaration.

We would like to point out that data transmission on the Internet (e.g., when communicating by e-mail) may have security gaps. A complete protection of data against access by third parties is not possible.

Orders, Invoices and Credit Notes contain product information, address data as well as payment information. Orders also contain carrier information.

All these information are stored to the database with restricted access and kept according to the legal requirements for 10 years.

The Intershop Order Management allows customers to print out return slips as well as return labels for carriers. To keep track of self created return documents and to be able to resend such documents upon a customer's request, these information are stored to the file system with restricted access. These address data are not supposed to be changed in any way and will be kept until all customer data are deleted.

The IOM can store individual customer data like:

All these information are stored to the database with restricted access until all customer data are deleted.

The Intershop Order Management stores the content of all created e-mails to the database with restricted access to maintain the customer relationship. These data remain until all customer data are deleted.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.