---
id: 'a085cd4d0387cb60026ce831e401575f'
title: 'Creating New Application'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/V32699'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:50.933793+00:00'
---
# Creating New Application

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Applications.
This lists all applications deployed in this sales channel.
-
Click New.
This opens an empty detail view.
-
Specify the required information for the new application.
The tables below list the available fields.
Table 1. General application data Property Description Application Type Specifies the intended application type, which ultimately defines the available set of functionality (mandatory). Application Name Specifies the application's display name (mandatory). Enabled (checkbox) Select this checkbox to activate the application. New applications are deactivated by default. Default (checkbox) Select this checkbox to set the new application as default immediately. URL Identifier Specifies the URL identifier string for the application (mandatory for non-default applications). Description The description may state, for example, the purpose of the new application. Table 2. Application regional settings Parameter Description Default Language Defines the default language for the application storefront. Default Currency Defines the default currency for the application storefront. Default Unit of Mass Defines the default unit of mass. Default Unit of Length Defines the default unit of length. Default Time Zone Defines the default time zone. Table 3. Address validation settings Parameter Description Enable Address Validation at Checkout Specifies whether the address validation (optional) is enabled for the checkout process. Enable Address Validation at Registration Specifies whether the address validation (optional) is enabled for customers' registrations. Enable Address Validation in "My Account" Specifies whether the address validation (optional) is enabled for customers' profile pages. -
Click Apply to create the application.
Otherwise, click Cancel to discard your settings.