---
id: 'a09c4802bc4e27750536c1e27c9aa89c'
title: 'Managing Placeholders of a Component Template'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3248C7'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:44.124480+00:00'
---
# Managing Placeholders of a Component Template

The Content tab of the detail view allows for managing placeholders of a component template.

## Adding Placeholders

-
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Component Templates.
This opens the Component Templates tree view.
-
Click the name or ID of the component template you intend to edit.
This opens the Content tab of the detail view.
-
In the Placeholders section, click the icon.
This opens the New Placeholder dialog.Note:You can also create a placeholder using the Create Placeholder link in the intended target section. Doing so will already set the type and the placeholder assignment.
-
Edit the details as necessary.
Specify a name, edit the ID as required, and select a slot type.Tip:In a component template derived from another user-defined component template, you can assign the current placeholder to a placeholder of the same type passed from the parent template. To do so, select the intended "parent" placeholder in the Placeholder Assignment field.
-
Click Apply.
This creates the placeholder and displays the list of components allowed to be assigned. By default, all allowed components are selected. For details about restricting the allowed components, see
[Defining Placeholder Constraints](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/content_management/topic_managing_placeholders1.html#task_page_cmpTmpl_ph_constraints).

## Editing Placeholder Details

-
Navigate to the intended placeholder.
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Component Templates. Click the name or ID of the component template you want to edit to open the detail view, then scroll to the Placeholders section.
-
Click the icon next to the placeholder to be edited.
This opens the placeholder details.
-
Edit the details as necessary, and click Apply.
Clicking Back returns you to the component template detail view.

## Defining Placeholder Constraints

-
Navigate to the intended placeholder.
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Component Templates. Click the name or ID of the component template you want to edit to open the detail view, then scroll to the Placeholders section.
-
Click the icon next to the placeholder to be edited.
This opens the placeholder details.
-
Open the Constraints tab.
This lists all available elements.
-
Use the checkboxes to define the components to be allowed for the current placeholder.
A selected checkbox makes the components based on the corresponding component template available for being assigned to the current placeholder. An unmarked checkbox, however, restricts components based on the corresponding component template from being available for assignments to the current placeholder.
-
Click Apply.
Clicking Back returns you to the component template detail view.

## Deleting Placeholders

-
Navigate to the intended placeholder.
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Component Templates. Click the name or ID of the component template you want to edit to open the detail view, then scroll to the Placeholders section.
-
Click the icon next to the placeholder to be deleted.
This displays a confirmation dialog.
-
Click OK to confirm the operation.
The selected placeholder is removed from the current component template.

Note:

Deleting a placeholder also deletes all content that is specifically assigned to the placeholder within components and component templates that are based on the current template.

## Viewing Placeholders

-
Navigate to the intended placeholder.
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Component Templates. Click the name or ID of the component template you want to edit to open the detail view, then scroll to the Placeholders section.
-
Click the icon next to the placeholder to be viewed.
This opens the placeholder details in read-only mode.

## Sorting Outgoing Placeholders

-
Navigate to the Outgoing Placeholders section.
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Component Templates. Click the name or ID of the component template you want to edit to open the detail view, then scroll to the Outgoing Placeholders section.
-
Use the arrow buttons to rearrange the placeholders.
Your changes take effect immediately.