---
id: 'a0fe82b5b3d4e88e391c18bf08135d60'
title: 'Cashback'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3254Y3'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:36.096268+00:00'
---
# Cashback

Intershop Commerce Management provides the ability to create cashback promotions with different conditions that can be defined for different target groups. This allows logged-in customers and/or unregistered storefront visitors to acquire cashback with their orders. This cashback can be transferred to the customer as a cashback promotion code.

Initially, a cashback promotion code has a theoretical maximum value and only receives its practical value when the ordered products are shipped. The cashback promotion code can be redeemed for another order of the same customer within the validity period. After redemption, the code loses its validity, even if there is still a remaining amount.

For information on how to enable the cashback feature for a channel, refer to [Defining Cashback Settings](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/operation_maintenance/topic_managing_promotion_preferences1.html#defining_cashback_settings).

- A promotion code group
The cashback promotion codes are stored in this promotion code group. For general information on how to create a promotion code group, refer to

[Creating Promotion Code Groups](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/online_marketing/task_creating_promotion_code_groups.html).Consider the following settings:Table 1. Promotion Code Group Settings Tab Property Value Description General Redemption | Total Reuse per Code | specific number 1 Ensures that the cashback promotion codes can only be used once. - Promotion for cashback earning
This promotion allows to earn cashback and store it in cashback promotion codes. For general information on how to set up a promotion, refer to

[Manually Creating Promotions](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/online_marketing/topic_creating_promotions.html#task_mkt_promo_create_mnl).Consider the following settings:

Table 2. Cashback Earning Promotion Settings Tab Property Value Description General Priority | Specify Priority 0 The priority of a promotion determines the processing sequence when calculating the discounts of several valid promotions. If the cashback promotion should only apply to the shopping basket value already reduced by other actions, the cashback promotion must have the lowest overall priority compared to other promotions applied to the basket. General Calculation Discounted Price This setting ensures that the customer only earns cashback for the price actually paid. Discount Rules Promotion Condition | New Cashback Earning with the Promotion Code Group assigned This setting allows to earn cashback which is then transferred to cashback promotion codes within the assigned promotion code group. Tip:All other configuration options for promotions can also be used to the full extent for a cashback promotion. A description of these is not given here. For details, refer to[Manually Creating Promotions](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/online_marketing/topic_creating_promotions.html#task_mkt_promo_create_mnl). - Promotion for cashback redemptionThis promotion allows to redeem the earned cashback. For general information on how to set up a promotion, refer to
[Manually Creating Promotions](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/online_marketing/topic_creating_promotions.html#task_mkt_promo_create_mnl). Consider the following settings:Table 3. Cashback Redemption Promotion Settings Tab Property Value Description Promotion Code Promotion Code Required true Required setting to assign promotion codes and promotion code groups. Promotion Code Use Promotion Code Group(s) true, promotion code group is assigned Allows to assign the promotion code group to the promotion. Discount Rules Promotion Discount Cashback Redemption Discount Grants a discount equal to the earned cashback contained in the cashback promotion code. Tip:All other configuration options for promotions can also be used to the full extent for a cashback promotion. A description of these is not given here. For details, refer to[Manually Creating Promotions](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/online_marketing/topic_creating_promotions.html#task_mkt_promo_create_mnl).