---
id: 'a2abda45964efd6352cf8cd8598d5606'
title: 'Overview'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/28555N'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:07.744993+00:00'
---
Intershop Commerce Management serves as the core component of the [Intershop Commerce Platform](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1870351240). It provides seamless shopping experiences alongside robust tools for transaction management, product information management (PIM), marketing, experience management, and advanced B2B operations.

Besides Commerce Management itself, there are two more backend applications for administrative tasks:

System Management

The System Management allows administrators to perform system control and monitoring tasks. These tasks include, among others, managing scheduled jobs, managing logging options, and monitoring the application functionality.

Refer to the [online help](https://docs.intershop.com/icm/latest/olh/smc/en/) for further information.

Organization Management

A central administration backend for Intershop Commerce Management that allows system administrators to manage organizations, users, product classifications, data import/export, site settings, data replication, and more.

Refer to the [online help](https://docs.intershop.com/icm/latest/olh/oma/en/) for further information.

Furthermore, Intershop Commerce Management provides various REST APIs to implement frontend applications that serve as web storefronts.

As a storefront solution, Intershop recommends the Angular-based Intershop Progressive Web App (PWA). It follows architectural best practices, covering areas such as initial page loads, server-side rendering, SEO, and modularization. The PWA supports a wide range of B2C and B2B features, including quoting and cost center management. Developers can adapt and extend the Intershop Progressive Web App to fit their specific needs.

Refer to [Overview - Intershop Progressive Web App](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1848547015) to learn more.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.