---
id: 'a2c3d36aae3bec6c718459e4c4ae3e82'
title: 'Getting Started'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/H41290'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:30:30.236447+00:00'
---
# Getting Started

The Sparque Center offers features to manage the search behavior of an online shop using Sparque.ai as its search tool. It allows you to configure redirects and synonyms.

[Getting Started](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iap/master/sc_en/sc/getting_started/topic_getting_started.html#topic_getting_started)This section provides general information about the Sparque Center and describes its navigation.

[Synonyms](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iap/master/sc_en/sc/synonyms/topic_synonyms.html#topic_synonyms)This section provides use cases and instructions for managing synonyms.

[Redirects](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iap/master/sc_en/sc/redirects/topic_redirects.html#topic_redirects)This section provides use cases and instructions for managing redirects.

[Glossary](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iap/master/sc_en/sc/references/ref_sc_glossary.html)This section provides a glossary explaining terms used throughout the Sparque Center.


## Navigation

The Sparque Center's user interface is divided into four main areas: the header, the sidebar, the main content area, and the footer.

-
*Header*The header consists of the toggle for the sidebar (see number 2), the name of the active app, the app switch, and the user menu.

*Sidebar*Clicking the

*menu button*() allows to toggle the sidebar. Here you can switch between modules of the Sparque Center.*Main content area*When opening the Sparque Center, the main content area shows a welcome page. From here you can access the modules that are assigned to you. Depending on the module used, its contents are displayed here, for example, a list of redirects in the

*Redirects*module.Furthermore, you can access Sparque Desk from here.

-
*Footer*The footer displays version information of the app and the name of the tenant you are currently logged in with.