---
id: 'a2f9a54d9dfe0869e2cb5f0687a79e71'
title: 'Reference - IOM REST API'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2964N1'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:37:18.615390+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/2964N1

# Download Specification

This API specification is available for download as an Open API 2.0 YAML file:

# API Specification

swagger: '2.0' info: description: The IOM RMA REST API supports programmatic access to objects related to the Return Merchandise Authorization process. version: 2.9.0.0 title: IOM RMA REST API contact: name: Intershop Communications AG url: 'http://intershop.com' basePath: /rest/rma tags: - name: shop description: 'API endpoints, that could be used by the shop.' schemes: - http - https paths: '/shops/{shopName}/orders/{shopOrderNumber}/return-requests/{returnRequestId}/contact-persons': get: tags: - shop summary: List the return request contact persons description: 'Returns a list of return request contact persons for a given returnRequestId, shopName and shopOrderNumber.' operationId: getContactPersons produces: - application/vnd.intershop.contact-person.v1beta1+json parameters: - name: returnRequestId in: path description: The return request id of the related order required: true type: integer format: int64 - name: shopOrderNumber in: path description: The order number of the shop required: true type: string - name: shopName in: path description: The shop name required: true type: string responses: '200': description: OK schema: type: array items: $ref: '#/definitions/ContactPerson' '401': description: Authentication information is missing or invalid headers: WWW-Authenticate: type: string description: '' '403': description: Forbidden '404': description: Not Found '406': description: Not Acceptable security: - basicAuth: [] - bearerAuth: [] '/shops/{shopName}/orders/{shopOrderNumber}/return-requests/{returnRequestId}/pickup-addresses': get: tags: - shop summary: List the return request pickup addresses description: 'Returns a list of return request pickup addresses for a given returnRequestId, shopName and shopOrderNumber.' operationId: getReturnRequestPickupAddresses produces: - application/vnd.intershop.pickup-address.v1beta1+json parameters: - name: returnRequestId in: path description: The return request id of the related order required: true type: integer format: int64 - name: shopOrderNumber in: path description: The order number of the shop required: true type: string - name: shopName in: path description: The shop name required: true type: string responses: '200': description: OK schema: type: array items: $ref: '#/definitions/ReadPickupAddress' '401': description: Authentication information is missing or invalid headers: WWW-Authenticate: type: string description: '' '403': description: Forbidden '404': description: Not Found '406': description: Not Acceptable security: - basicAuth: [] - bearerAuth: [] '/shops/{shopName}/orders/{shopOrderNumber}/return-requests': get: tags: - shop summary: List the return requests description: Returns a list of return requests for a given shopName and shopOrderNumber. operationId: getReturnRequests produces: - application/vnd.intershop.return-request.v1beta1+json parameters: - name: shopOrderNumber in: path description: The order number of the shop required: true type: string - name: shopName in: path description: The shop name required: true type: string responses: '200': description: OK schema: type: array items: $ref: '#/definitions/ReadReturnRequest' '401': description: Authentication information is missing or invalid headers: WWW-Authenticate: type: string description: '' '403': description: Forbidden '404': description: Not Found '406': description: Not Acceptable security: - basicAuth: [] - bearerAuth: [] post: tags: - shop summary: Create a return request description: Creates a new return request operationId: createReturnRequest consumes: - application/vnd.intershop.return-request.v1beta1+json parameters: - in: body name: returnRequest required: true schema: $ref: '#/definitions/WriteReturnRequest' - name: shopOrderNumber in: path description: The order number of the shop required: true type: string - name: shopName in: path description: The shop name required: true type: string responses: '201': description: Created headers: Location: type: string format: url description: The path to the newly created resource '400': description: Bad Request schema: $ref: '#/definitions/ErrorReport' '401': description: Authentication information is missing or invalid headers: WWW-Authenticate: type: string description: '' '403': description: Forbidden '415': description: Unsupported Media Type '500': description: An unexpected error occured security: - basicAuth: [] - bearerAuth: [] '/shops/{shopName}/orders/{shopOrderNumber}/return-requests/{returnRequestId}': get: tags: - shop summary: Get a return request description: 'Returns a return request for a given shopName, shopOrderNumber and returnRequestId.' operationId: getReturnRequest produces: - application/vnd.intershop.return-request.v1beta1+json parameters: - name: returnRequestId in: path description: The return request id of the related order required: true type: integer format: int64 - name: shopOrderNumber in: path description: The order number of the shop required: true type: string - name: shopName in: path description: The shop name required: true type: string responses: '200': description: OK schema: $ref: '#/definitions/ReadReturnRequest' '401': description: Authentication information is missing or invalid headers: WWW-Authenticate: type: string description: '' '403': description: Forbidden '404': description: Not Found '406': description: Not Acceptable security: - basicAuth: [] - bearerAuth: [] '/shops/{shopName}/orders/{shopOrderNumber}/return-requests/{returnRequestId}/custom-attributes': get: tags: - shop summary: List the return request custom attributes description: 'Returns a list of return request custom attributes for a given returnRequestId, shopName and shopOrderNumber.' operationId: getCustomAttributes produces: - application/vnd.intershop.custom-attribute.v1beta1+json parameters: - name: returnRequestId in: path description: The return request id of the related order required: true type: integer format: int64 - name: shopOrderNumber in: path description: The order number of the shop required: true type: string - name: shopName in: path description: The shop name required: true type: string responses: '200': description: OK schema: type: array items: $ref: '#/definitions/ReadCustomAttribute' '401': description: Authentication information is missing or invalid headers: WWW-Authenticate: type: string description: '' '403': description: Forbidden '404': description: Not Found '406': description: Not Acceptable security: - basicAuth: [] - bearerAuth: [] '/shops/{shopName}/orders/{shopOrderNumber}/return-requests/{returnRequestId}/positions/{returnRequestPositionId}': get: tags: - shop summary: Get a return request position description: 'Returns a return request position for a given returnRequestId, shopName, shopOrderNumber and a returnRequestPositionId.' operationId: getReturnRequestPosition produces: - application/vnd.intershop.return-request-position.v1beta1+json parameters: - name: returnRequestPositionId in: path description: The return request position id of the related return request required: true type: integer format: int64 - name: returnRequestId in: path description: The return request id of the related order required: true type: integer format: int64 - name: shopOrderNumber in: path description: The order number of the shop required: true type: string - name: shopName in: path description: The shop name required: true type: string responses: '200': description: OK schema: $ref: '#/definitions/ReadReturnRequestPosition' '401': description: Authentication information is missing or invalid headers: WWW-Authenticate: type: string description: '' '403': description: Forbidden '404': description: Not Found '406': description: Not Acceptable security: - basicAuth: [] - bearerAuth: [] '/shops/{shopName}/orders/{shopOrderNumber}/return-requests/{returnRequestId}/positions/{returnRequestPositionId}/items': get: tags: - shop summary: List the return request position items description: 'Returns a list of return request position items for a given returnRequestId, shopName and shopOrderNumber.' operationId: getReturnRequestItems produces: - application/vnd.intershop.return-request-item.v1beta1+json parameters: - name: returnRequestPositionId in: path description: The return request position id of the related return request required: true type: integer format: int64 - name: returnRequestId in: path description: The return request id of the related order required: true type: integer format: int64 - name: shopOrderNumber in: path description: The order number of the shop required: true type: string - name: shopName in: path description: The shop name required: true type: string responses: '200': description: OK schema: type: array items: $ref: '#/definitions/ReadReturnRequestItem' '401': description: Authentication information is missing or invalid headers: WWW-Authenticate: type: string description: '' '403': description: Forbidden '404': description: Not Found '406': description: Not Acceptable security: - basicAuth: [] - bearerAuth: [] '/shops/{shopName}/orders/{shopOrderNumber}/return-requests/{returnRequestId}/positions': get: tags: - shop summary: List the return request positions description: 'Returns a list of return request positions for a given returnRequestId, shopName and shopOrderNumber.' operationId: getReturnRequestPositions produces: - application/vnd.intershop.return-request-position.v1beta1+json parameters: - name: returnRequestId in: path description: The return request id of the related order required: true type: integer format: int64 - name: shopOrderNumber in: path description: The order number of the shop required: true type: string - name: shopName in: path description: The shop name required: true type: string responses: '200': description: OK schema: type: array items: $ref: '#/definitions/ReadReturnRequestPosition' '401': description: Authentication information is missing or invalid headers: WWW-Authenticate: type: string description: '' '403': description: Forbidden '404': description: Not Found '406': description: Not Acceptable security: - basicAuth: [] - bearerAuth: [] securityDefinitions: bearerAuth: description: JWT Bearer token type: apiKey name: Authorization in: header basicAuth: description: Basic Authentication type: basic definitions: CustomAttribute: type: object required: - key - value properties: key: type: string example: Example Key description: The key of a custom attribute. minLength: 1 maxLength: 250 value: type: string example: Example Value description: The value of a custom attribute. minLength: 1 maxLength: 1000 description: Represents a custom attribute (key/value pair) of a return request from an order of a shop. Link: type: object properties: href: type: string rel: type: string ReadCustomAttribute: allOf: - $ref: '#/definitions/CustomAttribute' - type: object properties: links: type: array items: $ref: '#/definitions/Link' id: type: integer format: int64 example: 10000 description: The custom attribute identifier. description: Represents a custom attribute (key/value pair) of a return request from an order of a shop. ReadReturnRequest: allOf: - $ref: '#/definitions/ReturnRequest' - type: object properties: links: type: array items: $ref: '#/definitions/Link' id: type: integer format: int64 example: 10000 description: The return request identifier. creationDate: type: string format: date-time example: '2018-02-27T09:15:37.562+02:00' description: The date when the return request was created. shopOrderNumber: type: string example: '20180303_123' description: The order number as used by the shop. shopName: type: string example: Test Shop US DE description: The name of the shop. supplierOrderNumber: type: string example: '20180303_321' description: The order number as used by the supplier. supplierName: type: string example: Test Supplier US DE description: The name of the supplier. status: type: string example: accepted description: The status of the return request. description: Represents a return request from a shop. ReadReturnRequestItem: allOf: - $ref: '#/definitions/ReturnRequestItem' - type: object properties: links: type: array items: $ref: '#/definitions/Link' id: type: integer format: int64 example: 10000 description: The return request item identifier. description: Represents a return request item of a return request from an order of a shop. ReadReturnRequestPosition: allOf: - $ref: '#/definitions/ReturnRequestPosition' - type: object properties: links: type: array items: $ref: '#/definitions/Link' id: type: integer format: int64 example: 10000 description: The return request position identifier. productName: type: string example: test_product_1 description: The product name as used by the shop. supplierProductNumber: type: string example: '20180303_123' description: The article number as used by the supplier. description: Represents a return request position of a return request from an order of a shop. ReturnRequest: type: object required: - type properties: type: type: string example: RETURN description: The type that specifies the return request. enum: - RETURN - PICKUP rmaNumber: type: string example: '10901095' description: The actual number of the return request. minLength: 1 maxLength: 50 comment: type: string example: The battery is draining quickly description: The comment of the return request. minLength: 0 maxLength: 255 description: Represents a return request from a shop. ReturnRequestItem: type: object required: - productSerialNumber properties: productSerialNumber: type: string example: W88401231AX description: The serial number of the product. minLength: 1 maxLength: 70 description: Represents a return request item of a return request from an order of a shop. ReturnRequestPosition: type: object required: - positionNumber - productNumber - quantity - reason properties: positionNumber: type: integer format: int32 example: 1 description: The posistion number as used by the shop. productNumber: type: string example: '20180303_123' description: The product number as used by the shop. minLength: 1 maxLength: 50 reason: type: string example: RET100 description: The reason for the return. quantity: type: integer format: int32 example: 1 description: The quantity of the related product by the shop. minimum: 1 description: Represents a return request position of a return request from an order of a shop. WriteCustomAttribute: allOf: - $ref: '#/definitions/CustomAttribute' - type: object properties: {} description: Represents a custom attribute (key/value pair) of a return request from an order of a shop. WritePickupAddress: type: object required: - city - countryCode - lastName - postCode - streetName properties: company: type: string example: Intershop Communication AG description: The name of the company of the pickup adress. minLength: 1 maxLength: 100 firstName: type: string example: John description: The first name related to the pickup address. minLength: 1 maxLength: 50 lastName: type: string example: Doe description: The last name related to the pickup address. minLength: 1 maxLength: 50 streetName: type: string example: Alexstraße description: The name of the street related to the pickup address. minLength: 1 maxLength: 100 houseNumber: type: string example: '28' description: The house number related to the pickup address. minLength: 1 maxLength: 20 postCode: type: string example: '12053' description: The post code related to the pickup address. minLength: 1 maxLength: 25 city: type: string example: Berlin description: The city name related to the pickup address. minLength: 1 maxLength: 100 countryCode: type: string example: DEU description: The ISO 3166-1 alpha-3 code for the country name related to the pickup address. district: type: string example: Berlin description: The district related to the pickup address. minLength: 1 maxLength: 100 additionFirstLine: type: string example: Finanz description: The first addition line related to the pickup address. minLength: 1 maxLength: 100 additionSecondLine: type: string example: 3.Floor description: The second addition line related to the pickup address. minLength: 1 maxLength: 100 description: Represents a pickup address related to the return request from an order of a shop. WriteReturnRequest: allOf: - $ref: '#/definitions/ReturnRequest' - type: object required: - positions properties: positions: type: array items: $ref: '#/definitions/WriteReturnRequestPosition' maxItems: 2147483647 minItems: 1 pickupAddress: $ref: '#/definitions/WritePickupAddress' customAttributes: type: array items: $ref: '#/definitions/WriteCustomAttribute' description: Represents a return request from a shop. WriteReturnRequestItem: allOf: - $ref: '#/definitions/ReturnRequestItem' - type: object properties: {} description: Represents a return request item of a return request from an order of a shop. WriteReturnRequestPosition: allOf: - $ref: '#/definitions/ReturnRequestPosition' - type: object properties: items: type: array items: $ref: '#/definitions/WriteReturnRequestItem' description: Represents a return request position of a return request from an order of a shop. ContactPerson: type: object properties: links: type: array items: $ref: '#/definitions/Link' id: type: integer format: int64 example: 10000 description: The contact person identifier. company: type: string example: Intershop Communication AG description: The name of the company of the contact person. firstName: type: string example: John description: The first name of the contact person. lastName: type: string example: Doe description: The last name of the contact person. phoneNumber: type: string example: 0176 12345677 description: The phone number of the contact person. emailAddress: type: string example: john.doe@intershop.com description: The email address of the contact person. language: type: string example: english description: The preferred correspondence language to answer the contact person. description: Represents a contact person of the return request from an order of a shop. PickupAddress: type: object required: - city - countryCode - lastName - postCode - streetName properties: company: type: string example: Intershop Communication AG description: The name of the company of the pickup adress. minLength: 1 maxLength: 100 firstName: type: string example: John description: The first name related to the pickup address. minLength: 1 maxLength: 50 lastName: type: string example: Doe description: The last name related to the pickup address. minLength: 1 maxLength: 50 streetName: type: string example: Alexstraße description: The name of the street related to the pickup address. minLength: 1 maxLength: 100 houseNumber: type: string example: '28' description: The house number related to the pickup address. minLength: 1 maxLength: 20 postCode: type: string example: '12053' description: The post code related to the pickup address. minLength: 1 maxLength: 25 city: type: string example: Berlin description: The city name related to the pickup address. minLength: 1 maxLength: 100 countryCode: type: string example: DEU description: The ISO 3166-1 alpha-3 code for the country name related to the pickup address. district: type: string example: Berlin description: The district related to the pickup address. minLength: 1 maxLength: 100 additionFirstLine: type: string example: Finanz description: The first addition line related to the pickup address. minLength: 1 maxLength: 100 additionSecondLine: type: string example: 3.Floor description: The second addition line related to the pickup address. minLength: 1 maxLength: 100 description: Represents a pickup address related to the return request from an order of a shop. ReadPickupAddress: allOf: - $ref: '#/definitions/PickupAddress' - type: object properties: links: type: array items: $ref: '#/definitions/Link' id: type: integer format: int64 example: 10000 description: The pickup address identifier. description: Represents a pickup address related to the return request from an order of a shop. Error: type: object required: - code - message properties: code: type: string example: VALIDATION_EXCEPTION description: Exception / Error code message: type: string example: Attribute XYZ is mandatory description: Exception / Error message value: type: object description: Value which caused the exception / error ErrorReport: type: object properties: status: type: integer format: int32 example: 400 description: 'The HTTP status code applicable to this problem, expressed as a string value' errors: type: array items: $ref: '#/definitions/Error' description: Detailed information about what went wrong

[Open ReDoc-rendered Open API documentation in separate window.](https://knowledge.intershop.com/rdd/Redoc-2964N1.html)

## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.