---
id: 'a37b827da6fe80770a9d54c14b83dc67'
title: 'Managing Sorting Preferences'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/322Z93'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:36.704130+00:00'
---
# Managing Sorting Preferences

This manager allows you to define the default display order of catalogs, categories and products. You can specify a dedicated default sorting attribute and the sorting direction for each object type.

Be aware that the settings made here apply to the sort order in the storefront and in Intershop Commerce Management.

[Managing Sorting Attributes of Standard Catalogs](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/task_managing_sorting_attribute.html).

To define a default sorting attribute:

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Preferences.
This displays the Preferences overview page.
- Select Sorting Preferences.
-
Select a standard sorting attribute or provide the name of a different attribute as custom sorting attribute for catalogs, categories or products in the corresponding section.
Select the option None in case you want to invalidate the general sorting preference without defining an explicit sorting. The standard sorting attributes include Product Name, Product ID, List Price and Manufacturer Name.Note:Selecting a custom sorting attribute for products applies to the storefront only. In Intershop Commerce Management, the products are sorted by their name.
-
Select the sorting order for catalogs, categories or products in the corresponding section.
The available options are: descending or ascending.
-
Click Apply to save your settings for catalogs, categories or products in the corresponding section.
Otherwise, click Reset to discard your changes.

[Product and Sub-Category Sorting](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/concept_product_and_sub-category_sorting.html#con_cat_sort).