---
id: 'a37bdf7baa00778b282a8e2e0565025a'
title: 'Reference'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2771T6'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:36:53.835998+00:00'
---
This document is to outline all possible environments used for configuration purposes and to define properties that differ in these environments.

Each configuration (property or preference) is described with the following attributes

Property | Default (Development) | Type | Range | Live | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
intershop.AuthenticationSecurity.Mode | secure_cookie_preferred | String | "standard", "secure_cookie_preferred", "secure_cookie_only" | authentication security mode
| |
intershop.event.messengerClass | String | messenger class | This is the multicast messenger backend. | ||
intershop.event.multicastAddress | 224.1.2.3 | String | 224.0.0.0 224.254.254.254 | This sets the class D IP address of the multicast group. This parameter is required. | |
intershop.event.multicastPort | 1234 | Integer | 1024-65535 | No | Port for event messaging, e.g. cache update events. Each installation has to use another port number. An ISH developer uses there telefon number + installation id (e.g. telefon is 1804 and installation id is 1 use 18041) Required. |
intershop.event.multicastInterface | inactive | String | IP for installed multiple network adapters. | ||
intershop.event.multicastTimeToLive | inactive | String | This sets the time to live for the multicast socket., this is used for multicast routing. | ||
intershop.event.multicastReceiveBufferSize | inactive, 1048576 | Integer | The size of the ReceiveBuffer for packets. This should be configured on the underlying os as well. | ||
intershop.event.multicastListenerThreads | 10 | Integer | The numer of spawned threads for receiving multicast packets | ||
intershop.event.multicastPacketSize | 65000 | Integer | This sets the size of the byte array for the receive() method of the multicast listener threads and therefore the maximum size of a packet. Maximum is 64k. | ||
intershop.registration.registrationTime | 10 | Integer | Fail-Over: The time in seconds after which each application repeats the broadcast of its own registration event, that is, the multicast message containing the host IP, port and server groups. | ||
intershop.registration.expirationTime | 30 | Integer | Fail-Over: The time in seconds after which a registration at another application becomes invalid. This value must be larger than the value for intershop.registration. registrationTime. | ||
intershop.user.cookies.enabled | true | Boolean | User Tracking: Sets an extra cookie to track the user ID. | ||
intershop.user.cookie.name | userid | String | User Tracking: A prefix used to construct the ID of the cookie at the client browser. The ID is in the format <prefix>-<domainid> or <prefix>-NoSiteID if there is no domain. | ||
intershop.user.cookie.comment | INTERSHOP User Tracking Cookie | Text | User Tracking: A description of the cookie. This is displayed if users ask to accept each cookie manually. | ||
intershop.user.cookie.maxage | -1 | Integer | User Tracking: The expiry time of the cookie in milliseconds. Set the value to -1 for the cookie to expire when the browser is closed; a value of 86400000 lets the cookie expire after one day. | ||
intershop.session.TimeOut | 30 | Integer | 1..35700 | Yes | Session Tracking: Time-out of an application server session object in minutes after the last request. Changing the timeout has no effect on existing sessions. |
intershop.session.AllowPersistent | true | Boolean | Session Tracking: Allows the persistent storage of session information in the database. This is necessary if you want to continue a session after a server has become unavailable (session failover). | ||
intershop.session.RestoreExpiredSessions | false | Boolean | Session Tracking: Allows to restore a session that has timed out. | ||
intershop.session.CheckRestoredSessions | inactive,true | Boolean | Session Tracking: In failover scenarios using multiple application servers, this setting forces re-reading of recovered session information from the database on subsequent requests. | ||
intershop.job.maxJobNumber | 5 | Integer | Job Processor: The maximum number of schedules that can be run in parallel. A schedule needs at least one and may have at most two database connections. | ||
intershop.job.enabled | true | Boolean | Job Processor: The parameter controls whether schedules are processed or not. | ||
intershop.job.history.expiration | 2 | Integer | Job Processor: The number of days that a finished scheduled job will be available is controlle by this parameter. | ||
intershop.WebServerURL | http://<host>:<port> | URL | The Enfinity Suite 6 application must know the host name and port of its corresponding Web server when the information used in the original request is not available. | ||
intershop.WebServerSecureURL | https://<host>:<port> | secure URL | The Enfinity Suite 6 application must know the host name and port of its corresponding Web server when the information used in the original request is not available. | ||
intershop.template.WebRootURL | /is-bin/intershop.static | String | Template Processor: Specifies the URL path prefix for static HTML content, for example, images, in the Web front pages. | ||
intershop.template.HttpsWebRootURL | /is-bin/intershop.static | String | Template Processor: Specifies the secure URL path prefix for static HTML content, for example, images, in the Web front pages. | ||
intershop.template.MaxIncludeDepth | 20 | Integer | Specifies the maximum depth for local template includes to impede recursive includes. | ||
intershop.template.WebRootURL | /is-bin/intershop.static | String | Template Processor: Specifies the URL path prefix for static HTML content, for example, images, in the Web front pages. | ||
intershop.template.HttpsWebRootURL | /is-bin/intershop.static | String | Template Processor: Specifies the secure URL path prefix for static HTML content, for example, images, in the Web front pages. | ||
intershop.template.MaxIncludeDepth | 20 | Integer | Specifies the maximum depth for local template includes to impede recursive includes. | ||
intershop.template.CheckSource | false (true) | Boolean | No | switch enables check if templates are changed during runtime. If CheckSource is false, the settings for CheckSourceInterval and CheckSourceModified have no effect. | |
intershop.template.CheckSourceInterval | Integer | This property determines in which interval (in seconds) the server checks whether the *.isml template of a requested page has been updated. | |||
intershop.template.CheckSourceModified | false (true) | Boolean | If true, it is possible to enforce a limited check for updated *.isml intervals on each request within the configured time interval(CheckSourceInterval). | ||
intershop.template.CompileOnStartup | true (false) | Boolean | Specifies whether to compile outdated templates on server startup. This increases the server startup time. | ||
intershop.template.DefaultContentEncoding | UTF-8 | String | The parameter determines the character encoding used during the template conversion process | ||
intershop.template.IgnoreRecurringModuleIncludes | true | Boolean | true = Ignore recurring module includes. false = Always process all includes. | ||
intershop.template.PrintTemplateMarker | false | Boolean | true = The application server will add comments at the beginning and the end of the template during the generation of the servlets output. | ||
intershop.template.defaultLanguage | "en" | String | Contains the language of the "default" template folder, used to ignore fallback to lead locale for template fallback. | ||
intershop.urlrewrite.CheckSource | false | Boolean | Specifies whether to monitor the urlrewrite.properties files for modifications and triggers a refresh if needed. | ||
intershop.urlrewrite.CheckSourceInterval | 5 | Integer | Specifies the time interval in seconds after which the urlrewrite.properties files are to be checked for modifications if CheckSource is true. (The value 0 – always – is not recommended). | ||
intershop.cache.RefreshOnDBInit | true | Boolean | Normally, the dbinit import refreshes the PO cache after every import step to update any object dependencies. As there are no import dependencies in a dbinit, you can switch it off by setting this property to false . This accelerates the dbinit considerably. | ||
intershop.cache.flushSessionDictionaries | false | Boolean | Specifies whether to delete all session-specific key-value pairs when a cache refresh event is triggered. | ||
oracle.context.enclosingChars.remove | true | Boolean | If set true, multiple enclosing characters are removed to prevent “DRG-50937: query too complex” errors (with enabled or forced substring search only.) | ||
oracle.context.enclosingChars | &,()[]{}-;~| $!>%_. :\"#'*+/<=?@^` | String | Contains a list of the removable enclosing characters. | ||
intershop.SMTPServer | defaultMailServer.domain.com | String | No | dns name or ip address - default intershop smtp server is jdevwin01.rnd.j.ad.intershop.net | |
intershop.mail.messageID.setByAppserver | true | Boolean | Yes | set to false, no message ID will be included in outgoing mails. (since 7.4) | |
intershop.mail.messageID.domain | String | Yes | a domain name to use for the message ID. (since 7.4) | ||
intershop.user.AllowMixedCaseLogin | false | Boolean | Enables case sensitivity for login names. If set false , login names are always converted into lower case. Do not change this setting in a productive system. | ||
intershop.encryption.passphrase | String | Specifies the passphrase used for encryption and decryption of sensitive data. For security reasons, the value should be changed. It must consist of at least five alphanumeric characters. | |||
| intershop.basket.persistCalculationResults | false | Boolean | The configuration (default = deactivated) enforces a recalculation of the basket while loading the _Order Review_page in the checkout, so the customer see actual prices, discounts, fees, surcharges and correct basket total. Persist the basket while submitting it, so that in case of, e.g., a crash or data center switch the persisted prices, discounts, fees, surcharges and basket total can be used for order creation. In 7.4.6 the property was called | ||
intershop.server.assignedToServerGroup | WFS, BOS | String | In an Enfinity Suite 6 deployment with multiple application servers, this setting allows to assign a single application server to certain server groups, for example, WFS for Web front requests or BOS for back-office requests. (Server group names for storefront use can be added as desired.) | ||
intershop.cpu.id | Integer | If Enfinity Suite 6 resides on a multi-processor machine, you can individually bind each server process to a specific processor before you start the system. | |||
intershop.fileservlet.maxBufferedFileSize | 50000000 | Integer | Defines at which file size (in bytes) the Web adapter switches to the streaming mode. That is, all files that are smaller than the specified value are buffered, whereas larger files are directly streamed. | ||
intershop.fileservlet.registerCachedFiles | true | Boolean | With selective page cache deletion, specifies whether static Web content is registered in the database. False prevents the corresponding table from growing increasingly and allocating too much database space. | ||
intershop.pipelines.CheckSource | false (true) | Boolean | No | switch enable check if pipelines are changed during runtime | |
intershop.pipelines.LoadLocalizedPipelineDescriptors | false (true) | Boolean | Load the localized descriptor files of pipelets and pipelines. (ignored since 7.9) | ||
intershop.pipelines.strict.CheckParameterTypes | false | Boolean | Specifies whether the pipeline is checked for the ’strict’ node parameter, i.e., where both start and end nodes are set ’strict’ (true | ||
intershop.pipelines.PreloadFromCartridges | all (empty) | String | No | Used to preload the pipelines from the specified cartridges upon server start to accelerate the application’s responsiveness. Supported values are cartridge names or all; if left blank, no pipelines are preloaded. | |
intershop.pipelines.PreloadFromSites | all (empty) | String | No | Used to preload the pipelines from the specified cartridges upon server start to accelerate the application’s responsiveness. Supported values are cartridge names or all; if left blank, no pipelines are preloaded. | |
intershop.pipelets.PreloadFromCartridges | all (empty) | String | Used to preload the pipelets from the specified cartridges upon server start to accelerate the application’s responsiveness. Supported values are cartridge names or all; if left blank, no pipelets are preloaded. | ||
intershop.queries. | |||||
intershop.pipelets.OnLoadError | PlaceHolder | String | For the case that a pipelet could not be loaded a place holder will load or a exception will throw if the value is Exception. | ||
intershop.pipelines.transaction.DefaultSynchronizationScope | CurrentSession | String | The granularity of synchronization can be controlled. See documentation and DefaultSynchronizationObject. | ||
intershop.pipelines.transaction.DefaultSynchronizationObject | CurrentStartNode | String | The granularity of synchronization can be controlled. See documentation and DefaultSynchronizationScope. | ||
intershop.queries.CheckSource | false (true) | Boolean | No | switch enable check if queries are changed during runtime | |
intershop.queries.Preload | true (false) | Boolean | Specifies whether the query files of all cartridges and sites are preloaded on server startup. | ||
intershop.pagelets.CheckSource | false | Boolean | check modification time of pagelet model files and reload if necessary. false = Server restart necessary to apply changes. | ||
intershop.webforms.CheckSource | false (true) | Boolean | check modification time of webform files and reload if necessary. Server restart necessary to apply changes. | ||
intershop.webforms.Preload | true (false) | Boolean | preloading of webform files. Server restart necessary to apply changes. | ||
intershop.partition.enabled | false | Boolean | Supports the Oracle partition feature to truncate domain related tables to save time. | ||
intershop.import.dbinit.verifyXML | false | Boolean | Prevents XML validation problems while a dbinit. | ||
intershop.servletEngine.logLevel | 4 | Integer | NONE=0, | Sets the log level. | |
intershop.servletEngine.connector.port | 10054 | Integer | This defines the port which the internal servlet engine opens to handle incoming traffic from the Web Adapter. This port must be unique for each application instance on a host. | ||
intershop.servletEngine.connector.minProcessors | 10 | Integer | Each incoming request requires a thread to process it for the duration of that request. Upon server startup, the internal servlet engine creates a number of request processing threads, based on the value configured for the minProcessors attribute. | ||
intershop.servletEngine.connector.maxProcessors | 75 | Integer | If more simultaneous requests are received than can be handled by the currently available request processing threads, additional threads will be created up to the configured maximum. | ||
intershop.servletEngine.connector.acceptCount | 300 | Integer | If still more simultaneous requests are received, they are stacked up inside the server socket, up to the configured maximum. Any further simultaneous requests will receive “connection refused” errors, until resources are available to process them. | ||
intershop.servletEngine.connector.address | inactive | String | This property can be used to define a specific IP address from which requests are accepted. This can be used, for example, to route traffic for cache synchronization and Web front traffic through separate interfaces. If no address is provided (default), the servlet engine accepts requests from all available network interfaces. | ||
intershop.servletEngine.connector.connectionTimeout | inactive, 60000 | Integer | Specifies the maximum time (in milliseconds) for obtaining a connection. If the value is not set or set to -1, the timeout check is disabled. | ||
intershop.servletEngine.connector.proxyName | inactive | String | Configure this attribute to specify the server name to be returned for calls to request.getServerName() | ||
intershop.servletEngine.connector.proxyPort | inactive | Integer | Configure this attribute to specify the server port to be returned for calls to request.getServerPort(). | ||
intershop.servletEngine.connector.maxHttpHeaderSize | 8192 | Integer | Configure this attribute to specify the maximal HTTP request/response header size. | ||
intershop.servletEngine.engine.dumpRequest | inactive, false | Boolean | Log details about each request (headers, cookies). | ||
intershop.servletEngine.engine.accessLogging | inactive, false | Boolean | Write an access log file for all incoming requests. | ||
intershop.servletEngine.context.reloadable | inactive, false | Boolean | Monitor classes in /WEB-INF/classes/ and /WEB-INF/lib and reload it, if changed. | ||
intershop.warmap.root.cartridges.folders | empty | String | JAX-Web Services: Register resources which will need for JAX-WS. | ||
intershop.warmap.root.sites.folder | empty | String | JAX-Web Services: Register resources which will need for JAX-WS. | ||
intershop.warmap.web-inf.folders | tags | String | JAX-Web Services: Register resources which will need for JAX-WS. | ||
intershop.warmap.web-inf.files | core:web.xml | String | JAX-Web Services: Register resources which will need for JAX-WS. | ||
intershop.wsrp.secureURL | false | Boolean | WebServices for Remote Portlets: Defines if the SOAP communication between consumer | ||
intershop.wsrp.serverGroup | BOS | String | The server Group can be defined, to which the webadapter will forward the web service | ||
intershop.startup.retryOnError | inactive, true | Boolean | Enables the startup retry in case of exceptions. | ||
intershop.startup.retryCount | inactive, 10 | Integer | Limits the number of retries (1...maxint). If the value is out of that range, missing or invalid, then the retries are executed endlessly until the server starts without error or is stopped manually. | ||
intershop.startup.retryInterval | inactive, 60 | Integer | Defines the waiting time (in seconds) between subsequent server startup attempts. | ||
intershop.shutdown.gracePeriod | inactive, 30 | Integer | The time period between unregistering an application server from a cluster and actually shut down can be configured here. The value must be provided in seconds. | ||
intershop.WaLogPush.notAllowedFrom | inactive, 8 | Integer | 0.. 23 | Starting time: WA log file pushing is not allowed in the time | |
intershop.WaLogPush.notAllowedTo | inactive, 21 | Integer | 0 .. 23 | end time: Starting time: WA log file pushing is not allowed in the time | |
intershop.WaLogPush.maxTransferRate | 200 | Integer | This parameter is the maximum WA log file transfer rate (transfer from webadapter logs to shared file system) in MB/h. | ||
intershop.xmlattributes.formatted | false | Boolean | If is set to 'true' the XML of custom XML attributes is stored with white spaces, line feeds and indentations in database. NOTE: The database needs more space if it is set to 'true'. | ||
| intershop.xmlattributes.computedlineitems.compressed | false | Boolean | If is set to 'true' the XML of ComputedLineItems in basket and order are compressed before storing. Therefore they are not human readable anymore, but smaller and faster. NOTE: The database needs less space and since less data needs to be written and read, it is also faster. | ||
intershop.pipelines.ExecuteUponServerStart | DefaultServerStart | String | The update mechanism for locales, tax data, currencies and exchange rates is based on a set of pipelines which are executed on server start up. The initial pipeline to start the update mechanism is configured here. | ||
intershop.monitoring.requests | true | Boolean | The pipeline monitoring in SMC (SMC/Monitoring/Performance) is permanently switch on/off for requests (former pipeline performance). | ||
intershop.monitoring.pipelines | true | Boolean | The pipeline monitoring in SMC (SMC/Monitoring/Performance) is permanently switch on/off for pipelines. | ||
intershop.monitoring.pipelets | true | Boolean | The pipeline monitoring in SMC (SMC/Monitoring/Performance) is permanently switch on/off for pipelets. | ||
intershop.monitoring.templates | true | Boolean | The pipeline monitoring in SMC (SMC/Monitoring/Performance) is permanently switch on/off for templates. | ||
intershop.monitoring.queries | true | Boolean | The pipeline monitoring in SMC (SMC/Monitoring/Performance) is permanently switch on/off for queries. | ||
intershop.monitoring.sql | false | Boolean | The pipeline monitoring in SMC (SMC/Monitoring/Performance) is permanently switch on/off for SQL. | ||
intershop.monitoring.objectpath | false | Boolean | The pipeline monitoring in SMC (SMC/Monitoring/Performance) is permanently switch on/off for object path. | ||
intershop.monitoring.class | true | Boolean | The pipeline monitoring in SMC (SMC/Monitoring/Performance) is permanently switch on/off for classes. | ||
intershop.monitoring.log | false | Boolean | The pipeline monitoring in SMC (SMC/Monitoring/Performance) is permanently switch on/off for log. | ||
intershop.monitoring.maxSensors | 50000 | Integer | The maximum number of performance sensors (SMC/Monitoring/Performance) is determined by the property this propery. 100000 performance sensor consume 60MB memory. | ||
intershop.monitoring.report.db.isEnabled | false | Boolean | The pipeline monitoring in SMC (SMC/Monitoring/Performance) is permanently switch on/off for database. | ||
intershop.monitoring.report.fs.isEnabled | true | Boolean | The pipeline monitoring in SMC (SMC/Monitoring/Performance) is permanently switch on/off for file system. | ||
intershop.pageCache.registerCachedElementQueue.queueSize | inactive, 30000 | Integer | PageCacheMgr settings to register CachedElements (iscachekey tags) within database. A queue (BlockingQueue) is filled and de-queue thread(s) registers a bunch of distinct keywords within PAGEKEYWORDBINDING. --> max. cached element capacity of the queue | ||
intershop.pageCache.registerCachedElementQueue.offerWaitTime | inactive, 1000 | Integer | PageCacheMgr settings to register CachedElements (iscachekey tags) within database. A queue (BlockingQueue) is filled and de-queue thread(s) registers a bunch of distinct keywords within PAGEKEYWORDBINDING. --> waiting time in milliseconds elapses before queue space is available | ||
intershop.pageCache.registerCachedElementDequeueThread.count | inactive, 2 | Integer | PageCacheMgr settings to register CachedElements (iscachekey tags) within database. A queue (BlockingQueue) is filled and de-queue thread(s) registers a bunch of distinct keywords within PAGEKEYWORDBINDING. --> number of de-queue threads. | ||
intershop.pageCache.registerCachedElementDequeueThread.pollWaitTime | inactive, 1000 | Integer | PageCacheMgr settings to register CachedElements (iscachekey tags) within database. A queue (BlockingQueue) is filled and de-queue thread(s) registers a bunch of distinct keywords within PAGEKEYWORDBINDING. --> how long to wait in milliseconds before giving up to get more from queue. | ||
intershop.pageCache.registerCachedElementDequeueThread.pollCount | inactive, 5000 | Integer | PageCacheMgr settings to register CachedElements (iscachekey tags) within database. A queue (BlockingQueue) is filled and de-queue thread(s) registers a bunch of distinct keywords within PAGEKEYWORDBINDING. --> max. number of cached elements with keywords polled from queue for given pollWaitTime, if pollWaitTime reached only the earlier polled elements processed. | ||
intershop.appserver.checkInterval | inactive, 10 | Integer | If the inspector access was not successful, the server is going into the paused state and does not receive any further request until all inspectors report success again. Defines the sleep time between subsequent inspector calls. | ||
intershop.appserver.checkDB | inactive, true | Boolean | Database inspector: Enables the database inspector, which pings the database to determine if a connection is possible. | ||
intershop.appserver.checkFS | inactive, true | Boolean | file system inspector: Enables the file system inspector, which pings the file system to determine if the file system is available. | ||
intershop.serverlogfile.Directory | see description | String | Location of global server log files. default: | ||
intershop.logfile.Directory | ${intershop.SharedDirectory}/system/log | String | Location of application log files. | ||
intershop.logfile.NamePostfix | ${intershop.HostName}-${intershop.InstallationID}- | String | Pre-assembled file name snippet, used at logback-*.xml to define the logfile names. | ||
intershop.configuration.CheckSource | false (true) | Boolean | No | Existing property files are scanned for modification. | |
intershop.configuration.CheckSourceInterval | 60000 | Integer | No | Time period between scans (in milliseconds) | |
intershop.localization.CheckContent | Boolean | No | Enables the reloading of localization strings. | ||
intershop.componentengine.testMode | false | boolean | No | enables the test mode (validation doesn't break the startup) | |
intershop.componentengine.preloadMode | true | boolean | No | enables preloading (all instances will be loaded at start-up of the component context, else on first usage) | |
| intershop.response.content-security-policy.<directive> | String | Sets a Content Security Policy directive value for the whole system. Any directive can be specified by replacing <directive> with the directive name.
The page cache should be invalidated after changing or adding a directive value. |

Property |
Default (Development) |
Type |
Range |
Live |
Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
intershop.logfile.maxsize |
8 |
Integer |
0-100 MB |
log file max size in MB. |
|
intershop.collectstartupinformation. |
true |
Boolean |
yes (SMC) |
Basic settings for collecting information at server startup SMC/Installation Maintenance/Cluster Information/Startup: application server information - name, IP, port, servergroups. |
|
intershop.collectstartupinformation. |
true |
Boolean |
yes (SMC) |
Basic settings for collecting information at server startup SMC/Installation Maintenance/Cluster Information/Startup: Enfinity Suite 6 version number and product ID. |
|
intershop.collectstartupinformation. |
true |
Boolean |
yes (SMC) |
Basic settings for collecting information at server startup SMC/Installation Maintenance/Cluster Information/Startup: name and version. |
|
intershop.collectstartupinformation |
true |
Boolean |
yes (SMC) |
Basic settings for collecting information at server startup SMC/Installation Maintenance/Cluster Information/Startup: used JRE version. |
|
intershop.collectstartupinformation. |
true |
Boolean |
yes (SMC) |
Basic settings for collecting information at server startup SMC/Installation Maintenance/Cluster Information/Startup: display information of the license key. |
|
intershop.collectstartupinformation. |
true |
Boolean |
yes (SMC) |
Basic settings for collecting information at server startup SMC/Installation Maintenance/Cluster Information/Startup: name, path and version. |
|
intershop.collectstartupinformation. |
true |
Boolean |
yes (SMC) |
Basic settings for collecting information at server startup SMC/Installation Maintenance/Cluster Information/Startup: loaded JDBC Driver. |
|
intershop.collectstartupinformation. |
true |
Boolean |
yes (SMC) |
Basic settings for collecting information at server startup SMC/Installation Maintenance/Cluster Information/Startup: basic information about the database like servername, port and user. |
|
intershop.collectsnapshotinformation. |
true |
Boolean |
yes (SMC) |
Basic settings for collecting information while a snapshot is created SMC/Installation Maintenance/Cluster Information/Snapshot: name, IP, port, servergroups. |
|
intershop.collectsnapshotinformation. |
false |
Boolean |
yes (SMC) |
Basic settings for collecting information while a snapshot is created SMC/Installation Maintenance/Cluster Information/Snapshot: Loaded persistent objects with detailed information. |
|
intershop.collectsnapshotinformation. |
true |
Boolean |
yes (SMC) |
Basic settings for collecting information while a snapshot is created SMC/Installation Maintenance/Cluster Information/Snapshot: JVM heap usage information. |
|
intershop.collectsnapshotinformation. |
false |
Boolean |
yes (SMC) |
Basic settings for collecting information while a snapshot is created SMC/Installation Maintenance/Cluster Information/Snapshot: Active threads with detailed information. |
|
intershop.collectsnapshotinformation. |
true |
Boolean |
yes (SMC) |
Basic settings for collecting information while a snapshot is created SMC/Installation Maintenance/Cluster Information/Snapshot: List of all used properties with current values. |
|
intershop.collectsnapshotinformation. |
false |
Boolean |
yes (SMC) |
Basic settings for collecting information while a snapshot is created SMC/Installation Maintenance/Cluster Information/Snapshot: List of all loaded pipelets with package structure (Warning: this operation might need considerable resources and time to process!). |
|
intershop.collectsnapshotinformation. |
true |
Boolean |
yes (SMC) |
Basic settings for collecting information while a snapshot is created SMC/Installation Maintenance/Cluster Information/Snapshot: Information about processes which tried to lock the same resource at the same time. |
|
intershop.collectthreaddumpinformation. |
false |
Boolean |
Basic settings for collecting information while a thread dump is created SMC/Installation Maintenance/Dump Generation/Threaddump: Information about locked monitors. |
||
intershop.collectthreaddumpinformation. |
false |
Boolean |
Basic settings for collecting information while a thread dump is created SMC/Installation Maintenance/Dump Generation/Threaddump: Information about locked synchronizers. |
||
intershop.collectheapdumpinformation. |
true |
Boolean |
Basic settings for collecting information while a heap dump is created SMC/Installation Maintenance/Dump Generation/Heapdump: Heapdump will include only live objects (i.e. objects that are reachable from others). |
||
intershop.mail.attachment.maxsize |
true |
Boolean |
SMC/Installation Maintenance/Information Files/Send: This parameter circumscribe the size of the e-mail attachment. |
||
intershop.mailadress.intershopde |
false |
Boolean |
SMC/Installation Maintenance/Information Maintainance/Send: true = default e-mail recipient. |
||
intershop.mailadress.intershopcom |
false |
Boolean |
SMC/Installation Maintenance/Information Maintainance/Send: true = default e-mail recipient. |
||
intershop.mailadress.intershopin |
true |
Boolean |
SMC/Installation Maintenance/Information Maintainance/Send: true = default e-mail recipient. |
||
intershop.mailadress.intershopinput |
aCustomEmail |
String |
SMC/Installation Maintenance/Information Maintainance/Send: true = default e-mail recipient. |
||
intershop.clusterinformation.startup. |
false |
Boolean |
yes (SMC) |
SMC/Installation Maintenance/Cluster Information/Startup: . true = server startup informations will collect while the server start up. |
|
intershop.clusterinformation.snapshot. |
false |
Boolean |
yes (SMC) |
SMC/Installation Maintenance/Cluster Information/Snapshot: true = snapshot informations will collect. |

Property |
Default (Development) |
Type |
Range |
Live |
Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
webadapterAgent.crawl. |
inactive, empty |
URL |
X is 1 or 2 or 3 and so on. Specifies a URL pattern (regular expression) that must be matched for a link to be followed. Several patterns can be specified appending number suffixes to the property name, like webadapterAgent.crawl.allowurl.1= webadapterAgent.crawl.allowurl.2= |
||
webadapterAgent.crawl. |
inactive, empty |
URL |
Specifies a URL pattern (regular expression) that prevents a link to be followed. Several patterns can be specified appending number suffixes to the property name, like webadapterAgent.crawl.denyurl.1= webadapterAgent.crawl.denyurl.2= |
||
webadapterAgent.crawl. |
inactive, empty |
String |
Specifies a link text pattern (regular expression) that must be matched for a link to be followed. Several patterns can be specified appending number suffixes to the property name, like webadapterAgent.crawl.allowtext.1= webadapterAgent.crawl.allowtext.2= |
||
webadapterAgent.crawl. |
inactive, empty |
String |
Specifies a link text pattern (regular expression) that prevents a link to be followed. Several patterns can be specified appending number suffixes to the property name, like webadapterAgent.crawl.denytext.1= webadapterAgent.crawl.denytext.2= |
||
webadapterAgent.crawl. |
60000 |
Integer |
The maximum time for obtaining a connection (connection timeout) and the |
||
webadapterAgent.crawl. |
60000 |
Integer |
Specifies the maximum time (in milliseconds) for obtaining a connection. If the value is not set or set to -1, the timeout check is disabled. Note that in case of a timeout, only the concerned request is cancelled. |
||
webadapterAgent.crawl. |
Intershop WebAdapter Agent |
String |
Specifies the user agent header to allow for the Web crawler to be detected as a Web robot. |
||
webadapterAgent.crawl. |
text/html application/xhtml+xml |
String |
Specifies the types of the response content that will be parsed for further links. Note that content of the default types will be parsed in any case, even if no value is set. |
||
webadapterAgent.crawl. |
A/href AREA/href LINK/href |
String |
Specifies the tag attributes that are considered as links. Note that the default tag attributes are considered in any case, even if no value is set. |
||
webadapterAgent.crawl. |
inactive, empty |
String |
To be used in conjunction with .replacepattern, specifies the URL template that replaces the given link pattern. For example, with webadapterAgent.crawl.replacepattern= |
||
webadapterAgent.crawl. |
inactive, empty |
String |
To be used in conjunction with .replacepattern, specifies the URL template that replaces the given link pattern. For example, see webadapterAgent.crawl.replacepattern. |
||
webadapterAgent.crawl. |
0 4 |
String |
Can specify crawler start times. Four fields, separated by spaces, define minute, hour, day of week and day of month using a cron-like syntax (each field can contain multiple values or value ranges separated by commas, asterisks mean ‘any’, the first day of week is Sunday = 1.) For example, 0 23 start any day at 23:00 0 23 * * start any day at 23:00 0 1 2-6 start from Monday to Friday at 01:00 0 6,22 * 1,5,15-17 start at the 1st, 5th, 15th, 16th and 17th of each month at 06:00 and 22:00 |

Property | Default (Development) | Type | Range | Live | Valid From | Valid To | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
intershop.sequence. | inactive; fix, calc, all | String | modifyMode --> specifies the applicable manipulations. Modes are: fix = add pre/suffixes, calc = additional numeric calculation and all = fix and calc | ||||
intershop.sequence. | inactive, ({0} * 10) + 1 | String | calcFormula - series calculation formula with {0} placeholder(s) which used for calculation by the javax.script.ScriptEngine (JavaScript). Important: Whole-number continuously calculation results are required. {0} placeholder = the value of the actually series/sequence identifier | ||||
intershop.sequence.prefix | inactive, prefix_ | String | append the specific prefix | ||||
intershop.sequence.suffix | inactive, _suffix | String | append the specific suffix | ||||
intershop.sequence. | inactive, 00000000 | String | series numberPattern settings | ||||
intershop.sequence.blockSize | inactive, 50 | Integer | sequence settings: blockSize - "increment by <n>" | ||||
intershop.sequence.startsWith | inactive, 1 | Integer | sequence settings: startsWith - "start with <n>" | ||||
intershop.sequence.cacheSize | inactive, 0 | Integer | sequence settings: cacheSize - "cache <n>" or "nocache" if <n> = 0 | ||||
intershop.sequence.orderFlag | inactive, true | Boolean | sequence settings: orderFlag - "order" if true or "noorder" if false | ||||
intershop.jdbc. | inactive, true | Boolean | Oracle Connection Initialization (core). See queries/database/OracleConnectionInitialization.query. This query sets the client_info field of the session, sets the name of the module that is currently running to a new module and the current action of module. Used in core cartridge (JDBCDataSource.java and OracleJDBCConnectionListener.java) | ||||
intershop.database. | inactive, true | Boolean | If false, the gather schema/table statistics are globally disabled for AnalyzeDatabaseSchema job and AnalyzeTable, AnalyzeTablesDecorator(staging) | ||||
intershop.database.oracle.lob.storageClause intershop.database.oracle.lob.storageClause.TableName.ColumnName | LOB ({0}) STORE AS SECUREFILE | String | 7.4.5.3 7.4.6.4 | The Oracle LOB storage configuration for table columns Important Oracle LOB parameters<storage> = STORE AS SECUREFILE | STORE AS BASICFILE <storage-parameters> = TABLESPACE <name> | TABLESPACE ${intershop.jdbc.tablespaces.users} ... <parameters> = DISABLE STORAGE IN ROW | ENABLE STORAGE IN ROW CACHE | NOCACHE CHUNK integer ... NOCOMPRESS | COMPRESS LOW | COMPRESS MEDIUM | COMPRESS HIGH DEDUPLICATE | KEEP_DUPLICATES ENCRYPT | DECRYPT ... Compression, duplication and encryption only available as option in Oracle Enterprise Edition. If LOBs configured with these options and without Enterprise Edition the following error messages occur:
ORA-00439: Feature not supported messages: 'Advanced Compression' | 'SecureFiles Encryption' SyntaxSyntax: intershop.database.oracle.lob.storageClause[.TableName.[ColumnName]] = <LOB_storage_clause> <LOB_storage_clause> - LOB ({0}) <storage> <storage-parameters> <parameters> ... {0} - LOB_item; table column name placeholder replaced by DatabaseTablesPreparer Note: Oracle uses defaults for all unspecified <LOB_storage_clause> parameters. Specify optional TableName and ColumnName key parameter in UPPERCASE letters. Default LOB configuration: intershop.database.oracle.lob.storageClause = LOB ({0}) STORE AS SECUREFILE [TableName[.ColumnName]] LOB configuration by 'specific names' or 'regular expressions': intershop.database.oracle.lob.storageClause.TableName =... name or reqexp for TableName(s) and all column names intershop.database.oracle.lob.storageClause.TableName.ColumnName =... name or reqexp for TableName(s) and ColumnName(s) Advanced examples for TableName[.ColumnName]: intershop.database.oracle.lob.storageClause.PRODUCT.ATTRIBUTES = LOB ({0}) ... (DISABLE STORAGE IN ROW CACHE) intershop.database.oracle.lob.storageClause.PRODUCT.ATTRIBUTES_[A-Z]{2}_[A-Z]{2} = LOB ({0}) ... (DISABLE STORAGE IN ROW CACHE) intershop.database.oracle.lob.storageClause.^[A-Z]{1}[_#$A-Z0-9]{0,26}_AV$.^[A-Z]{1}[_#$A-Z0-9]{0,29}$ = LOB ({0}) ... (TABLESPACE ...) intershop.database.oracle.lob.storageClause.^[A-Z]{1}[_#$A-Z0-9]{0,26}_VR$ = LOB ({0}) ... (TABLESPACE ...) intershop.database.oracle.lob.storageClause.^[A-Z]{2}ORDER[_#$A-Z0-9]{0,23}$.COMPUTEDITEMS = LOB ({0}) ... (TABLESPACE ...) intershop.database.oracle.lob.storageClause.MAIL.^CONTENT[_#$A-Z0-9]{0,23}$ = LOB ({0}) ... (TABLESPACE ...) |

Property |
Default (Development) |
Type |
Range |
Live |
Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
foo |
generally remarks |
In this file, additional JDBC data sources can be configured. The format is intershop.dataSource.<dataSourceName>.<property> = <value>. The <dataSourceName> is the name of additional JDBC data sources. <property> is a space-separated list of alias names OR number of dedicated read connections |
|||
intershop.dataSource. |
inactive |
String |
aliasNames = a space-separated list of alias names |
||
intershop.dataSource.foo. |
inactive, 5 |
Integer |
numberOfSharedReadConnections = number of dedicated read connections. |
||
intershop.dataSource.foo. |
inactive, oracle.jdbc. |
String |
the underlying JDBC driver's class name |
||
intershop.dataSource.foo. |
inactive, intershop |
String |
the database user |
||
intershop.dataSource.foo. |
inactive, intershop |
String |
the database user's password |
||
intershop.dataSource.foo. |
inactive, connectionString |
String |
the JDBC driver's connection URL like: jdbc:oracle:thin:@localhost:1521:ISORCL1 |
||
intershop.dataSource.foo. |
inactive, 5 |
Integer |
the initial number of pooled connections |
||
intershop.dataSource.foo. |
inactive, 50 |
Integer |
the max number of pooled connections |
||
intershop.dataSource.foo. |
inactive, 5 |
Integer |
the min number of idle connections |
||
intershop.dataSource.foo. |
inactive, 50 |
Integer |
the max number of idle connections |
||
intershop.dataSource.foo. |
inactive, 0 |
Integer |
the msecs to wait for a free connection |
||
intershop.dataSource.foo.properties. |
inactive, 60000 |
Integer |
msecs between pool cleanup runs |
||
intershop.dataSource.foo.properties. |
inactive, -1 |
String |
number of tests during pool cleanup run |
||
intershop.dataSource.foo.properties. |
inactive, 300000 |
String |
msecs of idle time before cleanup |

Property | Default (Development) | Type | Range | Live | Valid From | Valid To | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
intershop.encryption.keystore.provider | KeyManagerStd | String | The key manager class. This class has to implement interface KeyManager. | ||||
intershop.encryption.0.passphrase | irgendwas | String | longer than 5 chars | ||||
intershop.encryption.0.id | standard | String | The passphrase ID should be unique. | ||||
intershop.encryption.0.algorithm | PBEWithMD5AndTripleDES | String | optional - if not given, the default "PBEWithMD5AndTripleDES" will be used. | ||||
intershop.encryption.0.default | true | Boolean | There should be exactly one encryption config set to true. The passphrase ID should be unique. | ||||
| intershop.encryption.algorithms | String | 7.6 | Configure a comma separated whitelist of all supported encryption algorithms. If a requested algorithm is not in this list a NoSuchAlgorithmException is thrown. Changing this property requires a restart of the application server. If this property is not set, all algorithms are enabled. Example: #intershop.encryption.algorithms=ALGORITHM1, ALGORITHM2, ... intershop.encryption.algorithms=PBEWithMD5AndTripleDES |

Property |
Default (Development) |
Type |
Range |
Live |
Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
environment |
production |
String |
production, development, datacenter1 and so on |
environment=someValue; You can define special properties for your environment and use the overriding mechanism for configurations to first read your environmental properties and afterward your default properties. Example: environment=production --> The file production.properties will read and their properties will load at first. See also |

Property |
Default (Development) |
Type |
Range |
Live |
Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
generally remarks to codes |
This file does contain all properties that former where translated by the property manager. Most of them come from intershop.properties or system properties. |
||||
intershop.ExtraCartridgePath |
${IS_TARGET} |
String |
intershop.properties. This path will also browse for cartridges. build directory |
||
intershop.HomeDirectory |
${IS_HOME} |
String |
intershop.properties. The Enfinity home directory on the local host. |
||
intershop.InstallationID |
${IS_INSTALLATION} |
String |
intershop.properties. The ID of this Enfinity installation. |
||
intershop.nls_lang |
${NLS_LANG} |
String |
intershop.properties. The Oracle language code. |
||
intershop.nls_sort |
${NLS_SORT} |
String |
intershop.properties. The Oracle sorting order. |
||
intershop.ServerName |
${sys:server.name} |
String |
system property. The server name. |
||
intershop.ServerType |
AppServer |
String |
type of the server |
||
intershop.SharedDirectory |
${IS_SHARE} |
String |
The shared file system from Enfinity. |
||
intershop.Oracle |
${ORACLE_HOME} |
String |
intershop.properties. The path which contains the Oracle client directory. |
||
intershop.PlatformID |
${IS_OS_PLATFORM} |
String |
intershop.properties. The platform ID. |
||
intershop.InstanceTmpDirectory |
${IS_HOME}/temp |
String |
This directory for temporary files is located local on the Enfinity server n o t in the shared file system. |
||
intershop.Datacenter |
${IS_DATA_CENTER} |
String |
intershop.properties. The data center properties |

Property | Default (Development) | Type | Range | Live | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
cp.isHome | lib | String | A semicolon separated list of directories that should be added to the Enfinity class path. They are relative to IS_HOME. Note that the directory itself and all contained JAR files are added. | ||
cp.isShare | system/config/cluster | String | A semicolon separated list of directories that should be added to the Enfinity class path. They are relative to IS_SHARE. Note that the directory itself and all contained JAR files are added. The lib directories of all cartridges listed in cartridgelist.properties are automatically included. | ||
cp.ignoredClasses | ^com[ENFINITY:.]intershop[ENFINITY:.]beehive[ENFINITY:.]runtime[ENFINITY:.].*;\ | String | A semicolon separated list of classes that are NEVER to be loaded by the Enfinity class loader. For these classes, the parent class loader is called directly. In order to simplify the notation of a set of classes, the names must always be specified as Java regular expressions, e.g.: com[ENFINITY:.]company[ENFINITY:.].* -> denotes all classes and packages below 'com.company' OR com[ENFINITY:.]foo[ENFINITY:.]Bar -> denotes the single class 'com.foo.Bar' | ||
cp.ignoredResources | ^META-INF/services/javax[ENFINITY:.]xml[ENFINITY:.].*;\ | String | A semicolon separated list of resources that are NEVER to be loaded by the Enfinity class loader. For these resources, the parent class loader is called directly. In order to simplify the notation of a set of resources, the names must always be specified as Java regular expressions, e.g.: META-INF/services/javax.xml[ENFINITY:]* -> denotes all resources, starting with 'META-INF/services/javax.xml.' | ||
cp.dumpClasspath | false | Boolean | true -> The classpath will logged. |

Property |
Default (Development) |
Type |
Range |
Live |
Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
intershop.logging.mdc.types |
Request Session User |
String |
MDC enrichment for certain object types used in the current Enfinity Suite instance, using Java expressions. A list of mdc types. |
||
intershop.logging.mdc. |
com.intershop.beehive.core. |
String |
request class - fully qualified class name. Request chapter. |
||
intershop.logging.mdc. |
Value.getRequestID() |
String |
request ID, Syntax: <attr_ID>=<Java_expression> |
||
intershop.logging.mdc. |
Value. |
String |
request logging information |
||
intershop.logging.mdc. |
Value.getRequestType() |
String |
request type |
||
intershop.logging.mdc. |
com.intershop.beehive.core. |
String |
session class - fully qualified class name. Session chapter. |
||
intershop.logging.mdc. |
Value.getSessionID() |
String |
session ID |
||
intershop.logging.mdc. |
com.intershop.beehive. |
String |
user class - fully qualified class name. User chapter. |
||
intershop.logging.mdc. |
Value.getID() |
String |
user ID |
||
intershop.logging.mdc. |
com.intershop.beehive.core. |
String |
Job configuration class . Job configuration chapter. |
||
intershop.logging.mdc. |
Value.getName() |
String |
job name |
||
intershop.logging.mdc. |
Value.getUUID() |
String |
job ID |
||
intershop.logging.mdc. |
java.util.Stack |
String |
stack class - fully qualified class name. Stack chapter. |
||
intershop.logging.mdc. |
Value.firstElement() |
String |
the first element of the stack |
||
intershop.logging.mdc. |
Value.lastElement() |
String |
the last element of the stack |
||
intershop.logging.mdc. |
com.intershop.beehive.core. |
String |
process class - fully qualified class name. . Process chapter. |
||
intershop.logging.mdc. |
Value.getName() |
String |
process name |
||
intershop.logging.mdc. |
Value.getType() |
String |
process type |
||
intershop.logging.mdc. |
Value.getUUID() |
String |
process ID |
||
intershop.logging.mdc. |
Value.getParent() |
String |
parent process |
||
intershop.logging. |
root com.intershop.beehive. core.internal.request |
String |
default category for any dynamically created appenders,to be used as fallback if not defined explicitly |
||
intershop.logging. |
empty |
String |
default encoding for any dynamically created appenders,to be used as fallback if not defined explicitly. If no encoding is specified, Enfinity Suite uses the default platform encoding when writing log output. |
||
intershop.logging. |
[%date{yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss.SSS z}] |
String |
default pattern for any dynamically created appenders,to be used as fallback if not defined explicitly |
||
intershop.logging. |
30 |
Integer |
the interval for automatically flushing buffered file appenders |
||
intershop.logging. |
WARN |
String |
[ENFINITY:THRESHOLD, FIXED], |
the level of logback status messages (ERROR, WARN, INFO) that are passed to system.err and automatically appended to the application server log files, as well as the number of status messages stored with each application server |
|
intershop.logging. |
500 |
Integer |
Size of buffer for the last messages kept in memory |
||
intershop.logging. |
true |
Boolean |
Configuring Adapter for JDK 1.4 Logging |
||
intershop.logging. |
false |
Boolean |
Configuring Adapter for JDK 1.4 Logging |
||
intershop.logging.appender.<Appender Name>.level |
inactive |
String |
see statuslogging. level (4 rows above) |
yes (SMC) |
Values that overwrite the configuration of the native logback configuration files. |
intershop.logging.appender.<Appender Name>.categories |
inactive |
String |
<category1> <category2> .. |
yes (SMC) |
Values that overwrite the configuration of the native logback configuration files. |

Property |
Default (Development) |
Type |
Range |
Live |
Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
intershop.migration. |
6.0.1.0 6.0.1.x 6.1.0.0 6.1.1.0 6.2.0.0... |
String |
the order of migration steps |
||
intershop.migration. |
com.intershop.beehive. |
String |
The class implementing the com.intershop.beehive.core.dbinit.capi.MigrationPathProvider interface and providing the migration path and determining if a cartridge should be migrated or not. |
||
intershop.migration. |
true |
String |
true = old database tables will dropp duringthe migration. |

This is the property file for configuring the Intershop persistence engine. There are three options to configure the database connection: JDBC DriverManager, DataSource Lookup via JNDI and DataSource via JDBC Driver. The standard is JDBC Driver and will described only.

Property | Default (Development) | Type | Range | Live | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
intershop.jdbc. | com.intershop.beehive. | String | Determines the factory class that creates the JDBC data source instance for the specified database type. | ||
intershop.jdbc. | defaultDB | String | Specifies the name of the particular database as specified during the Enfinity Suite 6 installation ( <DB.NAME> ). | ||
intershop.jdbc.url | jdbc:oracle:thin: | String | Specifies the database to be contacted. This setting, which is specific for Oracle data sources only, combines some of the database connection parameters mentioned below, such as driver type and database server, into one single URL-like string for convenience. NOTE: Settings made here overwrite those in the single properties. | ||
intershop.jdbc. | thin | String | Specifies the type of the database driver. The Enfinity Suite 6 standard is thin . | ||
intershop.jdbc. | tcp | String | Specifies the network protocol used to communicate with the database server. The default is tcp . | ||
intershop.jdbc. | 1521 | Integer | TNS-Listener Port - Specifies the port number where the database server listens for requests ( <DB.LISTENER.PORT> ). | ||
intershop.jdbc. | ISORCL | String | Specifies the name of the particular database as specified during the Enfinity Suite 6 installation ( <DB.NAME> ). | ||
intershop.jdbc. | ISSERVER.world | String | Specifies the database server name as specified during the Enfinity Suite 6 installation, usually the Oracle TNS name ( <IS.AS.DBCONNECTION.TNSALIAS> ). | ||
intershop.jdbc. | INTERSHOP | String | Specifies the database user account name as specified during the Enfinity Suite 6 installation ( <IS.AS.DBCONNECTION.USER> ). | ||
intershop.jdbc. | intershop | String | Specifies the database password as specified during the Enfinity Suite 6 installation ( <IS.AS.DBCONNECTION.PASSWD> ). | ||
intershop.jdbc. | 5 | Integer | Specifies the initial number of connections in the JDBC shared connection pool, that is, the database connections of the Enfinity Suite 6 application established via JDBC. | ||
intershop.jdbc. | 5 | Integer | Specifies the minimum number of connections in the JDBC shared connection pool. | ||
intershop.jdbc. | 150 | Integer | Specifies the minimum number of connections in the JDBC shared connection pool. | ||
intershop.jdbc.connection | 30 | Integer | Specifies the maximum period (in minutes) a connection can be unused. When the period expires, the connection is closed and its resources are freed. | ||
intershop.jdbc.connection | true | Boolean | Oracle documentation: If an exact match is not found and the ClosestConnectionMatch datasource property is set, then the connection with the closest match is returned. The closest matched connection is one that has the highest number of the original attributes matched. Note that the closest matched connection may match a subset of the original attributes, but does not have any attributes that are not part of the original list. For example, if the original list of attributes is A, B and C, then a closest match may have A and B set, but never a D. | ||
intershop.jdbc.connection. | 3600 | Integer | Determines the interval in seconds between two heartbeat signals send on idle database connections. A Heartbeat signal on the physical database connection between database and application server prevents the closing of the connection by a firewall. | ||
intershop.jdbc. | 17008,17401,17410, | String | Oracle error codes | Additional fatal connection error codes to check (in order of the code numbers): closed connection, protocol violation, No more data to read from socket and OALL8 is in an inconsistent state known error codes. | |
intershop.jdbc.rac. | false | Boolean | Enables Fast Connection Failover if true on a DataSource instance, before retrieving any connections from that instance. You cannot enable Fast Connection Failover when reinitializing a connection cache. You must enable it before using the OracleDataSource instance. | ||
intershop.jdbc.rac. | nodes=rac-node1-vip:6200,rac-node2-vip:6200 | String | The advantages of remote ONS subscription are: Support for an All Java mid-tier stack, no ONS daemon needed on the client computer and, therefore, no need to manage this process and simple configuration using the DataSource property.The remoteONSConfig parameter is a list of name/value pairs of the form name=value that are separated by a new line character (\n). | ||
intershop.jdbc. | IS_INDX | String | Used by the dbinit process. This property specifies the tablespace name for indexes. The value IS_INDX is used by the Enfinity Suite database initialization. If you connect your Enfinity Suite 6 to a different database instance, change this property according to your tablespace name. | ||
intershop.jdbc. | IS_INDX_CTX | String | Used by the dbinit process. This property specifies the tablespace name for context indexes. The value IS_INDX_CTX is used by the Enfinity Suite database initialization. If you connect your Enfinity Suite 6 to a different database instance, change this property according to your tablespace name. | ||
intershop.jdbc. | IS_USERS | String | Specifies the tablespace name for users. | ||
intershop.jdbc. | IS_TEMP | String | Specifies the tablespace name for temporary data. | ||
intershop.jdbc. | empty | String | Perform the given SQL statement on open of a connection. | ||
intershop.jdbc. | empty | String | Perform the given SQL statement on close of a connection | ||
intershop.jdbc. | true | Boolean | String handling for strings that are too long for their column. Strings are truncated. | ||
intershop.jdbc. | supported | String | disabled, forced, supported | This property controls the batch processing handling of ORM layer. disabled - For all transactions the batch processing is switched off. forced - For all transactions the batch processing is switched on. supported - The batch processing is enabled if it is explicitly switched on by calling method setBatchProcessingEnabled(true). | |
| intershop.jdbc.enableForeignKeyConstraints | true (Oracle) false (MS-SQL) | Boolean | No | This property specifies if Foreign Key constraints are enabled. Based on the different databases, different default values are used (Oracle: true, MS-SQL: false)
|

This property file contains keys to configure the report cartridge.

Property |
Default (Development) |
Type |
Range |
Live |
Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
intershop.ssh.passphrase |
empty |
String |
The encrypted pass phrase. |
||
intershop.ssh.username |
empty |
String |
The ssh user account name. |
||
intershop.ssh.hostname |
empty |
String |
The ssh host name. |
||
intershop.ssh.fingerprint |
empty |
String |
yes (Pipeline/Pipelet) |
The ssh host public key fingerprint. |

This file is used in both, source (editing) and target (live) systems. Configurable settings are:

Property | Default (Development) | Type | Range | Live | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| |||||
staging.system.type | ESL 6.x: | String | editing | Defines the type of staging system.
| |
staging.system.name | host (Editing System) | String | The name of staging system. Arbitrary names are supported. | ||
staging.statement. | inactiv, begin gather_table_ | String | This SQL statement is used by decorator | ||
staging.prepareOnDBInit | false | Boolean | Defines if the staging environment should be prepared during DBInit (true) or during first staging process (false) | ||
staging. | false | Boolean | In case of the database is filled with the same database dump in source and target system you can set this property to 'true'. It avoids the call of stored procedure 'sp_copy_db_content(..)' during initial replication process to reduce its duration. Tested with true and initial dbinit: It works. | ||
staging.WebServerURL | inactive, empty | URL | The web server URL being used by staging processes (optional). In the live system the property configures the URL of SOAP staging service. In the editing system it configures the web server from which one the files should be downloaded. If no value is set it uses the standard web server URL configured in the 'appserver.properties'. | ||
| |||||
staging.database.connection.factory |
| String | Defines the database connection factory to be used during staging process.
| ||
| These properties should be set in live and editing system. They are used to configure the parallelism behavior during a staging process. | ||||
staging.process. | 2 | Integer | The number of parallel executed staging processors. | ||
staging.process. | 3 | Integer | The number of parallel replicated entities per staging processor. | ||
staging.process. | 1 | Integer | The number of parallel threads within database performing a SQL statement. | ||
staging.process. | 1000000 | Integer | The minimum number of rows a table must have to replicate its content with parallel SQL hints configured in the property above. | ||
| These properties should be set in live system. If a timeout is reached, the staging process proceeds its execution. An according error is logged in the error log file. | ||||
staging.locking. | 1200 | Integer | The maximum time the staging process waits for resources (in s). | ||
staging.timeout. | 600 | Integer | Defines the maximum time the staging process waits for each application server refreshing the cache of persistence layer (in s). | ||
staging.timeout. | 600 | Integer | Defines the maximum time the staging process waits for each application server switching their directories (in s). | ||
staging.timeout. | 7200 | Integer | The maximum time the staging process waits for a new state during a staging process (in s). | ||
staging.timeout. | 10800 | Integer | Defines the maximum time the initial staging process waits for the initial database replication. | ||
| These properties need to be set in the target system. | ||||
staging.dblink.name | inactive, ISEDITING | String | This parameter defines name of database link from target (live) to source (editing) database. Please use only this | ||
staging.editing.schema. | inactive, empty | String | Defines the name of the editing schema . If this property is set, the staging process will directly access the editing schema, instead of using the database link. This property must be set in the live system only. The editing and the live schema have to be located in the same database instance. | ||
staging.live.servergroup | BOS | String | Defines which server group should be used for staging. | ||
| This section contains the configuration of the staging processors. These setting express the assignment of the staging processor name as defined in the Staging-Processor-To_Staging-Group assignment (StagingGroupInformation.properties), which only represents a processor name (like an alias) to an implementing staging processor Java class together with assigned staging processor decorator(s)' Java class(es). Warning: If these properties contain invalid entries, staging can result in data corruption! Please make sure you have understood the documentation before changing theese settings! | ||||
Syntax: | |||||
staging.processor.<StagingProcessorName>.className = <implementingClassInclusiveJavaPackage> | |||||
Example: FullDomainSpecificStagingProcessor | Configuration of the database staging processor that transfers domain specifc data (Products, Discounts, etc.). | ||||
staging.processor.FullDomainSpecificStagingProcessor.className = com.intershop.beehive.core.capi.staging.process.FullDomainSpecificStagingProcessor | |||||
| These settings should be set in the target system. They work with
| ||||
staging.process.unusableIndex.rowCountLimit[.TableName] | Integer | Set the
| |||
Examples: | (default value): staging.process.unusableIndex.rowCountLimit = 0
staging.process.unusableIndex.rowCountLimit = 100000
staging.process.unusableIndex.rowCountLimit.PRODUCT = 200000 | ||||
staging.process.unusableIndex.rebuildParallelism | 1 | Integer | Set the number of parallel threads within database performing a SQL | ||
staging.process.disableConstraint.rowCountLimit[.TableName] | see Examples below | Integer resp. String | Set the
| ||
Examples: | (default value): staging.process.disableConstraint.rowCountLimit = ${staging.process.unusableIndex.rowCountLimit}
staging.process.disableConstraint.rowCountLimit.PRODUCT = ${staging.process.unusableIndex.rowCountLimit.PRODUCT} | ||||
staging.process.disableConstraint.enableParallelism | see Description column | Integer resp. String | Set the number of parallel threads within database performing a SQL | ||
staging.contextIndexCreationMode | sync | String | sync | Defines, how the staging process behaves depending on the creation of context indexes.
| |
Examples: | (default value): staging.contextIndexCreationMode=sync
staging.contextIndexCreationMode.PRODUCT=async | ||||
| This section contains the configuration of the staging processors, as it was valid in ESL6.5. These setting are possibly not up-to-date now. Since these settings are subject of release specific changes, probably these old information will be removed soon. | ||||
staging.processor. | c.i.b.c.c.s.p.Full | String | Configuration of the database staging processor that transfers domain specific data (Products, Discounts, etc.). The processor replicates only the content of the selected domains during a batch process. Processor class is used to stage tables containing domain specific content. | ||
staging.processor. | c.i.b.c.c.s.p.Analyze | String | See previous description. This decorator is used to analyze tables of editing and live system during staging process. In editing system tables are analyzed on preparation hook, in live system on replication hook. | ||
staging.processor. | c.i.b.c.c.s.p.Disable | String | See previous description. This decorator is used to disable all constraints on shadow tables of live system before the synchronization starts. After replication the constraints will be enabled. | ||
staging.processor. | c.i.c.m.c.s.Remove | String | See previous description. This decorator is used to mark the catalog domains as deleted, which are removed by the replication process. | ||
staging.processor. | c.i.b.c.c.s.p.Execute | String | This staging processor is based on full staging processor switching $1 and $2 tables on publication phase. Further, it calls query files on each staging hook to perform the replication. | ||
staging.processor. | c.i.b.c.c.s.p.Full | String | Configuration of the database staging processor transferring system content like regional settings, permissions, roles, etc. This processor is used to perform staging processes for tables containing system wide content. | ||
staging.processor. | c.i.b.c.c.s.p.Analyze | String | This decorator is used to analyze tables of editing and live system during staging process. In editing system tables are analyzed on preparation hook, in live system on replication hook. | ||
staging.processor. | c.i.b.c.c.s.p.Disable | String | This decorator is used to disable all constraints on shadow tables of live system before the synchronization starts. After replication the constraints will be enabled. | ||
staging.processor. | c.i.b.c.c.s.p.Merge | String | Configuration of the database staging processor transferring domain specific content, that may be written in storefront of live system (like Users). This staging processor is used to replicate database content residing in database tables being changed in source as well as target system. Due to this, the replication occurs in one huge transaction. It uses the 'MERGE' sql statement to transfer the new and updated content and uses the deletion tracking with deletion trigger to realize removed rows in editing system. The 'MERGE' statement has a restriction. It does not work on tables having a column with a context index. So, only tables with normal indexes are supported. | ||
staging.processor. | c.i.b.c.c.s.p.Disable | String | This decorator is used to disable all constraints on shadow tables of live system before the synchronization starts. After replication the constraints will be enabled. | ||
staging.processor. | c.i.b.c.c.s.p.Append | String | Configuration of the database staging processor transferring domain specific content, that is only appended to live system content. Old content is whether replicated, deleted nor changed. | ||
staging.processor. | c.i.b.c.c.s.p.Merge | String | Configuration of the database staging processor transferring domain specific content, that may be written in storefront of live system (like Users) and have a lot of rows in live system. The undo process is not supported. | ||
staging.processor. | c.i.b.c.c.s.p.Simple | String | Configuration of the file system staging processor transferring simple files (gifs,...). | ||
staging.processor. | c.i.b.c.c.s.p.Simple | String | Configuration of the file system staging processor transferring localization files. It is based on file system staging processor too. | ||
staging.processor. | c.i.b.c.c.s.p.Refresh | String | The decorator reloads the localization files in live system after wards the localization files are replicated. | ||
staging.processor. | c.i.b.c.c.s.p.Simple | String | Configuration of the file system staging processor transferring search indexes. It is based on file system staging processor too. | ||
staging.processor. | c.i.c.f.c.r.Refresh | String | The decorator refreshes the search indexes on each application server in live system. | ||
staging.processor. | c.i.b.c.c.s.p. | String | Configuration of the mview staging processor refreshing materialized views referencing affected tables. | ||
staging.processor. | c.i.b.c.c.s.p.FullFast | String | Configuration of the database staging processor transferring Rules. This processor uses direct path SQL statements improving performance during replication of huge amount of data. Further, during replication the indexes are not maintained. After wards the replication has been finished the rebuild of all indexes affected by replication will be rebuilt. Furthermore, replicated Rules will be reloaded in the target system. This staging processor operates in the same way like FullStagingProcessor, but uses special SQL statements, that disables redo logging in Oracle database. NOTE: In case of a database crash the data inserted by this staging processor are not recoverable due to only direct load DML is used. | ||
staging.processor. | c.i.b.c.c.s.p.Analyze | String | This decorator is used to analyze tables of editing and live system during staging process. In editing system tables are analyzed on preparation hook, in live system on replication hook. | ||
staging.processor. | c.i.b.c.c.s.p.Disable | String | This decorator is used to disable all constraints on shadow tables of live system before the synchronization starts. After replication the constraints will be enabled. | ||
staging.processor. | c.i.b.c.c.s.p.Execute | String | This staging processor is based on full staging processor switching $1 and $2 tables on publication phase. Further, it calls query files on each staging hook to perform the replication. | ||
staging.processor. | c.i.c.s.c.s.Shipping | String | This decorator is used to reload the shipping rules, after the rules of cartridge bc_ruleengine were transferred. | ||
staging.objects.chunksize | inactive, 15 | Integer | Business Object Replication: If the user plans to replicate a lot of objects (e.g. 10000 products), these objects will be sent several loops, 15 objects each loop and the cache refresh is started after all objects are sent and merged. Remember that Business Object Replication is only meant for emergency updates of a few objects. |

Product data feeds provide the possibility to externalize the content of the product repository to different types of targets. In this property file are 5 chapters for serverel product data feeds: Standard, Standard transformed, Feed Dynamix Feed, Sitemap XML and Product RSS Feed.

The Feed Dynamix Feed is a markup format that is used by Feed Dynamix' feed engine. Using the service involved, your current product data is fed to multiple price and product search engines.

Property | Default (Development) | Type | Range | Live | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
intershop.syndication. | ProcessProductOutbound | String |
| ||
intershop.syndication. | ViewChannelOutbound | String | This pipeline is used to configure a file name for an outbound syndication. | ||
intershop.syndication. | Standard | String | This entry will displayed in the back office (channel catalogs / Product data feed) as "Target / type". | ||
intershop.syndication. | com.intershop.component. | String | This class marshals the given products to given temporary export file. | ||
intershop.syndication. | ${SYNDICATION_DIR}/export | String | The export directory path. ${SYNDICATION_DIR} = /eserverX/share/sites/Site-Name/units/Unit-Name/syndication | ||
intershop.syndication. | ProcessProduct | String |
| ||
intershop.syndication. | ViewChannelOutbound | String | See above. | ||
intershop.syndication. | ViewChannelOutbound | String | This pipeline creates, updates or deselctsa syndication data declaration list object and assigns it to the syndication passed as input parameter. | ||
intershop.syndication. | Standard transformed | String | See above. | ||
intershop.syndication. | com.intershop.component. | String | See above. | ||
intershop.syndication. | ${SYNDICATION_DIR} | String | See above. | ||
intershop.syndication. | ProcessProductOutbound | String |
| ||
intershop.syndication. | ViewChannelOutbound | String | See above. Note: Same function but other pipeline. | ||
intershop.syndication. | Feed Dynamix Feed | String | See above. | ||
intershop.syndication. | com.intershop.component. | String | See above. Note: Same function but other marshaller. | ||
intershop.syndication. | ${SYNDICATION_DIR} | String | See above. | ||
intershop.syndication. | ViewProductDetail-Start | String | Collecting Product data. | ||
intershop.syndication. | EANCode | String | Feed Dynamix data export needs the EAN code from each product. | ||
intershop.syndication. | ProcessProductSiteMap | String |
| ||
intershop.syndication. | ViewChannelOutbound | String | See above. Note: Same function but other pipeline. | ||
intershop.syndication. | ${SITE}/static/sitemaps | String | The directory for publich access: | ||
intershop.syndication. | inactive, ${UNIT}/ | String | private export directory | ||
intershop.syndication. | ProcessProduct | String |
| ||
intershop.syndication. | com.intershop.component. | String | See above. Note: Same function but other marshaller. | ||
intershop.syndication. | ViewProductDetail-Start | String | Collecting Product data. | ||
intershop.syndication. | rss_2.0 | String | rss_0.9, rss_0.93, | Feed type: [ENFINITY:feedname]_[ENFINITY:feedversion] with the feedname in lower case. | |
intershop.syndication. | inactive, SyndicationFeed-FileSyndication | String | Optional feed pipeline that is used to deliver the file from the outbound syndication object syndication object is added as SyndicationID. | ||
intershop.syndication. | ${SITE}/static/feeds | String | public export directory | ||
intershop.syndication. | true | Boolean |
| ||
intershop.syndication. | inactive | String | fully qualified DNS name of the ftp host | ||
intershop.syndication. | inactive | String | The login name from the ftp-user. | ||
intershop.syndication. | inactive | String | The passwort from the ftp-user. | ||
intershop.syndication. | inactive | String | The file will transfered to this given target path on the ftp host. | ||
intershop.syndication. | inactive, 1.99 | BigDecimal |
| ||
intershop.syndication. | inactive, 0.99 | BigDecimal | Shipping costs in EUR currency for Feed Dynamix data export. | ||
intershop.syndication. | inactive | String | The name of the delivery days attibute for example "DeliveryDays". This name will need to get value of 'delivery days' from the product attributes. See class DataFeedMarshaller. | ||
intershop.syndication | inactive | URL |
| ||
intershop.syndication. | inactive | String | The name of the 'valid from' attibute. This name will need to get value of valid from. See class DataFeedMarshaller. | ||
intershop.syndication. | inactive | String | The name of the 'valid to' attibute. his name will need to get value of valid to. See class DataFeedMarshaller. | ||
intershop.syndication. | inactive | String | The name of the 'eanCode' attibute. his name will need to get value of EAN code from. See class DataFeedMarshaller. | ||
intershop.syndication. | inactive, | String | It is possible to put custom attributes to the product. With this parameter could get the custom attribute from the product and export it to the Feed Dynamix feed engine. An example for the handling is intershop.syndication.target.FeedDynamixFeed. | ||
intershop.syndication. | inactive, | String | This parameter is used for special custom price attributes. See also class DataFeedMarshaller. An example is intershop.syndication.target.FeedDynamixFeed.price.EUR. |

For the communication and remote management to work, the TCCs and the Node Managers must share the multicast settings. Settings necessary for cluster-wide management are stored in the common configuration file tcm.properties. This file is located in /eserverX/system/tcm/config.

On multi-homed hosts enfironment consider the local tcm.properties file located in /eserverX/system/tcm/config/local/IP-address/Instance-ID because it is machine-specific configuration.

Property |
Default (Development) |
Type |
Range |
Live |
Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
intershop.tcm.event. |
c.i.b.m.i.m.MulticastMessenger |
String |
|
||
intershop.tcm.event. |
224.3.2.1 |
IP-address |
Defines the group address used for multicast messaging. The address has to start with 224. The following three octets are arbitary but they should unique. |
||
intershop.tcm.event. |
5432 |
Integer |
Defines the event distribution port for multicast messaging. |
||
intershop.tcm.event. |
inactive, empty |
IP-address |
This parameter will need in a environment with multiple network adapters installed on a machine. The parameter will use to identify the network interface which is used for event distribution. |
||
intershop.tcm.event. |
inactive, empty |
Integer |
This sets the time to live for the multicast socket. This is used for multicast routing. |
||
intershop.tcm.event. |
inactive, 1048576 |
Integer |
The size of the ReceiveBuffer for packets. This should be configured on the underlying operation system as well. |
||
intershop.tcm.event. |
5 |
Integer |
The number of spawned threads for receiving multicast packets. |
||
intershop.tcm.event. |
inactive, 65000 |
Integer |
This sets the size of the byte array for the receive() method of the multicast listener threads and therefore the maximum size of a packet. Maximum is 64k. |
||
intershop.tcm.registration. |
10 |
Integer |
|
||
intershop.tcm.registration. |
50 |
Integer |
The time interval in seconds after which a node manager or another TCC is unregistered if no heartbeat has been received from it. |
||
intershop.tcm.jmx.protocol |
http |
String |
|
||
intershop.tcm.password. |
MD5 |
String |
The algorithm used for password encryption. |

The properties defined here are distributed to all WebAdapter instances in the cluster via the configuration service. Properties can also be set individually for one WebAdapter instance in its local *webadapter.properties* file.

All memory sizes are measured in bytes. All time values are measured in seconds.

Property | Default (Development) | Type | Range | Live | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
server.groups | WFS, BOS | String | The server groups the WebAdapters know about. | ||
requestlog.enabled | true | Boolean | Request log data are written if the buffer is full of entries or the flush interval is exceeded. | ||
requestlog.buffersize | 500000 | Integer | The recommended buffer size is between 1 kB and 1 MB. | ||
requestlog.flushinterval | 10 | Integer | The interval should be long enough to avoid inefficient writes of very small blocks (<1kB) and short enough to ensure up-to-date logfiles and to avoid expensive writes of very large blocks (>1MB). | ||
requestlog.includes | true | Boolean | Enable logging of <wainclude> requests. | ||
requestlog.sparse | true | String | True means to skip redundant fields in <wainclude> log entries, like client IP, port and similar which does not change for the includes. | ||
requestlog.binary | true | String | True allows logging of requests with 'binary' responses. | ||
requestlog. | 3600 | Integer | from 60 to | This property allows to configure different periods when a request log file is created. | |
general description |
| ||||
errorlog.level.log | inactive, INFO | String | To override the setting for selected functional areas. | ||
errorlog.level.fileutils | inactive, INFO | String | To override the setting for selected functional areas. | ||
errorlog.level.utils | inactive, INFO | String | To override the setting for selected functional areas. | ||
errorlog.level.socket | inactive, INFO | String | To override the setting for selected functional areas. | ||
errorlog.level.response | inactive, INFO | String | To override the setting for selected functional areas. | ||
errorlog.level. | inactive, INFO | String | To override the setting for selected functional areas. | ||
errorlog.level. | inactive, INFO | String | To override the setting for selected functional areas. | ||
errorlog.level. | inactive, INFO | String | To override the setting for selected functional areas. | ||
errorlog.level.main | inactive, INFO | String | To override the setting for selected functional areas. | ||
errorlog.level.request | inactive, INFO | String | To override the setting for selected functional areas. | ||
errorlog.level. | inactive, INFO | String | To override the setting for selected functional areas. | ||
servlet.path | /servlet | String |
| ||
enfinity.servlet | /Beehive | String | The name of the servlet to process pipeline requests. | ||
static.servlet | /Resource | String | The name of the servlet to process static file or image requests. | ||
dist.servlet | /Dist | String | The name of the servlet to process .dist requests. | ||
wsrp.servlet | /WSRP | String | The name of the servlet to process .wsrp requests (Web Services for Remote Portlets). | ||
vanity.pathinfo | /WFS/SLDSystem/-/-/-/URLMapping-Resolve | String | The name of the pipeline to process 'vanity domain mapped' requests. Vanity Mappings are handled as a special type of Shortlinks. An example for the vanity domain is HYPERLINK "http://www.primetech.de" --> www.primetech.de/is-bin/INTERSHOP.enfinity/ | ||
servlet.allow.0 | /SOAP | String | The list of servlets, which can be accessed through the generic .servlet mapping. The WebAdapter forwards only requests of the form /is-bin/INTERSHOP.servlet/<group><servlet.allow.x>... | ||
servlet.allow.1 | /WebService | String | Member of the list of servlets. See above. | ||
servlet.allow.2 | /Axis2 | String | Member of the list of servlets. See above. | ||
servlet.allow.3 | /broker | String | Member of the list of servlets. See above. | ||
wsrp.initialSite | root | String | The site context to be used for .wsrp requests without navigational state. The pagecache settings of this site apply to such requests. | ||
cs.poll.interval | 10 | Integer |
| ||
cs.poll.maxwait | 5 | Integer | Maximum time to find a responding configuration service before the attempt is abandoned. The former properties 'cs.connect.timeout' and 'cs.socket.timeout' are calculated since webadapter release 1.1.0: Config service communication timecsSingleMaxTime = cs.poll.maxwait / NumberOfConfigServices ('cs.url.*' properties) in milli seconds csConnectTimeout = max(csSingleMaxTime / 4 , 25) in milli seconds csSocketTimeout = max(csSingleMaxTime - csConnectTimeout, 250) in milli seconds | ||
cs.poll.maxtries (removed with webadapter 1.1.0 release) | 5 | Integer | Number of attempts to contact each configuration service before abandoning | ||
cs.connect.timeout (replaced in webadapter release 1.1.0 with calculation) | 15 | Integer | communication timeouts - connection: This value should be short enough to recognize a configuration service failure (and try another one) within a reasonable time and long enough to avoid wrong failure recognitions due to a momentary network or server overload. | ||
cs.socket.timeout (replaced in webadapter release 1.1.0 with calculation) | 15 | Integer | communication timeouts - socket: This value should be short enough to recognize a configuration service failure (and try another one) within a reasonable time and long enough to avoid wrong failure recognitions due to a momentary network or server overload. | ||
session.ttl | 21600 | Integer |
| ||
session. | false | Boolean | The parameter encodes the User-Agent request header into generated SID strings. Such SIDs are only valid for requests which send the same User-Agent. | ||
session. | Intershop WebAdapter Agent | String | The built-in crawler is needed here. This parameter allows to define a special handling for indexing robots or: If a case-insensitive substring match of the "User-Agent" request header with one of the patterns succeeds, the WA removes all SID/PGID occurences in outgoing (buffered) responses. | ||
session. | inactive, googlebot | String | The Google crawler. The same reason as in the line above applies, but it is recommended to maintain a simple text list of known user-agent substrings in the file <share>/system/config/cluster/robot-agents.txt instead of listing numbered properties here. | ||
session. | inactive, crawler | String | Another crawler, see former line for description. | ||
session. | inactive, 10.0.* | IP-Address | Allows to define a special handling for indexing robots: If the client address matches with one of the listed IPs/IP masks, the WA removes all SID/PGID occurences in outgoing (buffered) responses. However, it is recommended to maintain a simple text list of known IPs/IP masks in the file <share>/system/config/cluster/robot-addresses.txt instead of listing numbered properties here. | ||
session. | 127.0.0.1 | inactive, IP-Address | The next IP-Address (or IP-Range) etc., see former line for description. | ||
request. | inactive, | String | If the client's IP address cannot be determined from the HTTP server connection (behind proxies or certain load-balancers), it can be read from the HTTP request header named here. The outer network components must be configured to send this header. | ||
session. | inactive, false | Boolean | If a client is recognized as a robot via session.skipForUserAgent/RemoteAddr but sends requests with URL-SID/PGID, redirect it via "301 Moved Permanently" to the session-less version of the request. (A search engine stored such URLs by accident or misuse, re-checks the URLs and is told the corrected version.) | ||
session.tracking.mode | CookiePreferred | String | URLOnly, | The parameter controls how the WebAdapter is tracking sessions. This can be overriden for individual sites by setting session.tracking.mode.<site>=<value> | |
session.cookie. | false | Boolean | Toggles the presence of the 'HttpOnly' flag for sid/pgid cookies. | ||
as.maxwait | 120; 10 since v1.1.0 | Integer |
| ||
as.maxtries | 40; 2 since v1.1.0 | Integer | Maximum number of tries to find a responding application server for a request. Should be configured to be a fraction of as.maxwait to allow an appropriate pause between the contact attempts. | ||
as.connect.timeout | 10; 3 since v1.1.0 | Integer | communication timeouts - connection: Use a short timeout for the connection attempt since there is a retry/failover policy. Use a long timeout for read/write operation to allow an AS to process expensive requests without running into timeouts. | ||
as.socket.timeout | 300 | Integer | communication timeouts - socket: See former line. | ||
as.connect.keepalive | true | Boolean | If enabled, one persistent connection is used for all AS requests triggered by a single client request (the forwarded client request and all its <wainclude>s). Try both variants in real conditions; 'false' was sometimes observed to be faster. | ||
as.hash.key | 42 | Integer | The parameter has to modify when server hash conflict warnings are written in the WebAdapter error log. | ||
include.maxdepth | inactive, 16 | Integer | The parameter restricts maximal <wainclude> recursion depth. | ||
stream.buffersize | inactive, 100000 | Integer | The parameter configures the blocksize when responses are copied blockwise from AS to client ("streamed"). | ||
post.maxsize | Integer | Determines the maximum Content-Length of POST requests. A value of "0" means "unlimited". It is strongly recommended to set a meaningful limit. If not set, any unfriendly client can request large amounts of memory up to a complete "denial of service". | |||
post.cachesize | 16000 | Integer | Determines the maximum Content-Length of POST requests, which are cacheable by the WebAdapter. | ||
cicevent.enabled | false | Boolean | Enable to search and process business event tags (<cicevent .../>) in the response content. For performance reasons, do not enable it where not needed. | ||
cicevent.removeTags | true | String | Disable to keep business event tags (<cicevent .../>) in the outgoing responses. This is useful in business report development only - the actual tag content will be visible via 'View Page Source' in browsers. | ||
session.lb.filterperiod | 120 | Integer |
| ||
session.lb.qualityweight | 1 | Integer | lb.qualityweight controls how much preference a faster server is given over | ||
request.lb.filterperiod | 30 | Integer | See above (the same like the session). | ||
request.lb.qualityweight | 1 | Integer | See above (the same like the session). | ||
lb.initialTimeFactor | 5.0 | Double | Each newly registered application server starts with a processing time measure determined by the filtered response time of the application server that is currently the fastest, multiplied with the value of the property lb.initialTimeFactor. A larger property value means that the request load for this application server increases slower after server start up to avoid server overload due to initially short response times. | ||
lb.connectPenalty | 1.5 | Double | If an application server request fails temporarily due to a connect error or timeout, the application server is charged with a penalty time to decrease its probability to get new sessions or requests. The lb.connectPenaltyFactor controls the penalty time. | ||
pagecache.static. | inactive, false | Boolean |
| ||
pagecache.pipeline. | inactive, false | Boolean | Do not cache pipelines. | ||
pagecache.static. | inactive, false | Boolean | Do not cache static items from the given site. | ||
pagecache.pipeline. | inactive, false | Boolean | Do not cache pipelines from the given site. | ||
pagecache.ignoreGet | true | Boolean | For GET requests: The WebAdapter honors Pragma/Cache-Control request headers. When present - typically with "Reload" requests from browsers - and not ignored by the property below, requests are forwarded to the AS. | ||
pagecache.ignorePost | true | Boolean | For POST requests: Description is the same as in the former line. | ||
pagecache.page | 300 | Integer | Unix systems only: If a page is found in the cache, which has expired less than <pagecache.pageRegenerationMaxage> seconds ago, it is made valid for the next <pagecache.pageRegenerationPhase> seconds before the request is forwarded to the AS. (Simultaneous requests to the same page can be served from the cache during this phase.) | ||
pagecache.page | 30 | Integer | See description from the former line. | ||
pagecache.ignore.0 | inactive, submit.x | inactive, String | Defines a list of query attributes which are to be ignored in the page cache lookup. Mainly intended to ignore unwanted x/y coordinates, which are included with image button clicks. | ||
pagecache.ignore.1 | inactive, submit.y | String | Member of the list. See former line. | ||
pagecache. | true | Boolean | Controls whether the WebAdapter will use its pagecache for client requests with the "Authorization" header. | ||
pagecache.monitor | true | Boolean | To toggle the request/hit accounting in .wastatistics. This can improve throughput in special, extreme load conditions. | ||
monitor.pushinterval | Integer |
| |||
monitor. | 600 | Integer | Configures the time (in seconds) between transmissions of the full set of | ||
monitor.pathinfo | /BOS/SMC/-/-/-/ | String | The parameter configures the pipeline to which the statistics data will be sent. | ||
webadapterAgent. | INFO | String | DEBUG, INFO, WARN, ERROR, FATAL |
| |
webadapterAgent. | /BOS/root/-/-/-/WriteFile | String | The parameter specifies the target for uploading the access log files. | ||
webadapterAgent. | /BOS/root/-/-/-/WriteFile | String | The parameter specifies the target for clearing the upload. | ||
webadapterAgent. | 2000000 | Integer | The parameter specifies the chunk size for log file uploads. | ||
webadapterAgent. | 10 | Integer | The parameter specifies how often we try to upload newly finished access log files (in seconds; 0 — disables this service). | ||
webadapterAgent. | BOS | String | ServerGroup: The parameter specifies where to ask for expired pages. | ||
webadapterAgent. | /Pagecache | String | Servlet: The parameter specifies where to ask for expired pages. | ||
webadapterAgent. | 60 | Integer | The parameter adjusts how often we ask for expired pages (in seconds; 0 — disables this service). | ||
webadapterAgent. | 86400 | Integer | The parameter checks how often we check for deprecated directories (in seconds; 0 — disables this service). | ||
webadapterAgent. | inactive, 7:30-12:30, 16:30-23:00 | String | Additionally you can specify comma-seperated time intervals in the form of hh:mm, in which the start of site cache clearing is forbidden (commended means site cache clearing is always possible) webadapterAgent.pageCache.siteClearForbidden=7:30-12:30, 16:30-23:00. | ||
webadapterAgent. | see description | String |
| ||
webadapterAgent. | inactive, empty | String | The processors defined in this property are used for the defined site only. Please add all processors you want to use with the site. An example is shown in the former line. | ||
webadapterAgent. | inactive, true | Boolean | Enable a site for page cache indexing. Example: webadapterAgent.pageCache. | ||
| cs.services.max | 5 (not set, optional) | Integer | 1.. | This property can adjust the number of registered configuration servlets in the webadapter.properties file managed by the WebadapterAgent if the Create and set the property within the "share/system/config/cluster/webadapter.properties" file only. The WebadapterAgent starts with the default value until the first successful configuration servlet request. This option should be changed if 5 (from default value) or more application servers are restarted or stopped at once. The web adapter loses all registered configuration servlets at once. This can cause a delay in configuration servlet failover. The property is supported since WebadapterAgent version 2.1.9 . | |
| webadapter.pageCache.strictkeywords | false (not set, optional) | Boolean | This property can change the indexing of page cache keywords from pages. Default/false True The keywords are not tokenized and used as is. Two pages with a keyword 'product_someA' and 'product_someB' can not be invalidated by a invalidation keyword 'product'. You need to provide the correct and case sensitive keyword 'product_someA' or 'product_someB' to invalidate a page from the page cache. The default 'false' or not setting the property is backward compatible to the old behavior. The property is supported since WebadapterAgent version 2.3.0 . |

This file is an application server instance specific configuration file and is located in */eserverX/share/system/config/servers/IP-address/instance*. The Enfinity instance ID is named like ES1, ES2,...

Note

Starting with Intershop 7.6 the appserver-specific configuration files reside in *<IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/config*.

The old location *<IS.INSTANCE>share/system/config/servers* (deprecated) does not fit Intershop's new continuous integration approach. * *


It is possible thate more than one application server exist in an Enfinity instance. Server instance specific settings are stored in dedicated local configuration files such as appserver0.properties, appserver1.properties for each existing application server.

The settings in this file override the global application server settings defined in <share>/system/config/cluster/appserver.properties.

Property | Default (Development) | Type | Range | Live | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
intershop.cpu.id | inactive, 0 | Integer | The ID of the CPU to which the server process is to be bound. If this setting is missing or empty, the process will run unbound on all available CPUs. | ||
intershop.servletEngine.connector.port | 10054 | Integer | The port number for the servlet engine. | ||
intershop.cacheSync.interface | inactive, empty | IP-address | The networking interface which should be used for ORM cache sync messages. This setting is machine-specific, so it can't be configured in the global orm.properties. | ||
webservice.client.http.listener.port | inactive, empty | Integer | The HTTP port on which Axis2 receives the responses of asynchronous Web service requests. | ||
webservice.client.https.listener.port | inactive, empty | Integer | The HTTPS port on which Axis2 receives the responses of asynchronous Web service requests. | ||
intershop.logging.isServerSpecific | inactive | Boolean | yes (SMC) | Set the logging to application server specific. | |
intershop.logging.appender.<Appender Name>.level | inactive | String | see logging.properties configuration | yes (SMC) | If intershop.logging.isServerSpecific is true, these values override the values in logging.properties. |
intershop.logging.appender.<Appender Name>.categories | inactive | String | see logging.properties configuration | yes (SMC) | If intershop.logging.isServerSpecific is true, these values override the values in logging.properties. |
intershop.tracking.OnError | Exception | String | Log|Exception | The tracking framework allowes to track processes and user actions. There might be several handlers that handle those events. If such a handler throws some exception the intershop.tracking.OnError value denotes what happens on exception: If value "Exception" is set the framework throws the occured exception, otherwise ("Log") it just logs the exception to the error log, but progresses with no error. The latter one ("Log") is the behaviour if the key-value pair is missing at all and should be the behaviour in a live environment, while during development time "Exception" should be set. |

Property |
Default (Development) |
Type |
Range |
Live |
Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
PageSize.Category.ProductList |
12 |
Integer |
1-n |
default list count for product lists |
|
PageSize.Category.SubcategoryList |
12 |
Integer |
1-n |
default list count for subcategory lists |
|
PageSize.Search.ProductSearch |
12 |
Integer |
1-n |
default list count for product search results |
|
PageSize.Search.ContentSearch |
12 |
Integer |
1-n |
default list count for content search results |
|
PageSize.MaxPageSize |
200 |
Integer |
1-n |
default pagesize for "show all" option |

Property |
Default (Development) |
Type |
Range |
Live |
Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
PageTypeACL.PageType |
page.attributeIndex.pagelet2-page.attributeIndex |
String |
ViewContent-Start will check if your page type is listed. If yes your page will be rendered normally. You can build links to your page type via ViewContent-Start. If no you'll get a 403 |

Location: Channel[PrimeTech Specials] > Services > Captcha Services > Captcha Check - Configuration

NOTE

Captcha Service is only visible if this Service is enabled for the Channel

Activating Captcha Service for channel:

NOTE

This settings are just for testing purposes and are valid for all domains.

Configuration key |
Configuration value |
Type |
Range |
Live |
Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Public Key: |
6LfdkcASAAAAAM2riv4EctfxSSqlXKSC-SasCYIO |
String |
public key used to communicate with external Recaptcha service |
||
Private Key |
6LfdkcASAAAAAM7EQKkNP6QAxlnUySmhsg5MscKb |
String |
private key used to communicate with external Recaptcha service |
||
|
String |
external URL used to verify user input for Recaptcha |
|||
|
String |
external URL used for http communication with external Recaptcha service |
|||
|
String |
external URL used for https communication with external Recaptcha service |

These properties not are loaded by the configuration framework.

Property |
Default (Development) |
Type |
Range |
Live |
Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
<ISOLanguageCode>_ |
generally remarks to codes |
file name. For each language and country could created a file. examples: de_DE.properties, fr_CH.properties, en_EN.propertie. This files contain the following properties. |
|||
decimalNegativePattern |
- #,##0.0######### |
String |
negative decimal number |
||
decimalPositivePattern |
#,##0.0######### |
String |
positive decimal number |
||
decimalGroupingCharacter |
. |
String |
thousands separator |
||
decimalDecimalSeparator |
, |
String |
decimal point |
||
shortCurrencyNegativePattern |
- #,##0.00######## |
String |
abbreviated form: currency negative decimal number |
||
shortCurrencyPositivePattern |
#,##0.00######## |
String |
abbreviated form: currency positive decimal number |
||
longCurrencyNegativePattern |
- #,##0.00######## * |
String |
currency negative decimal number |
||
longCurrencyPositivePattern |
#,##0.00######## * |
String |
currency positive decimal number |
||
currencyGroupingCharacter |
. |
String |
currency thousands separator |
||
currencyDecimalSeparator |
, |
String |
currency decimal point |
||
longDatePattern |
dd.MM.yyyy |
String |
date format |
||
shortDatePattern |
d.M.yy |
String |
abbreviated form: date format |
||
timePattern |
HH:mm:ss |
String |
time specification |
||
dateTimeAMString |
String |
ante meridiem doesn't exist in Germany |
|||
dateTimePMString |
String |
post meridiem dosen't exist in Germany |
|||
integerNegativePattern |
-#,##0 |
String |
negative integer |
||
integerPositivePattern |
#,##0 |
String |
positive integer |
||
integerGroupingCharacter |
. |
String |
integer thousands separator |
||
integerDecimalCharacter |
, |
String |
integer decimal point |
||
shortQuantityNegativePattern |
- #,##0.########## |
String |
abbreviated form: negative quantity |
||
shortQuantityPositivePattern |
#,##0.########## |
String |
abbreviated form: positive quantity |
||
longQuantityNegativePattern |
- #,##0.########## * |
String |
negative quantity |
||
longQuantityPositivePattern |
#,##0.########## * |
String |
positive quantity |
||
quantityGroupingCharacter |
. |
String |
quantity thousands separator |
||
quantityDecimalCharacter |
, |
String |
quantity decimal point |

Property |
Default (Development) |
Type |
Range |
Live |
Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
american |
en US USD false |
String |
File localization.properties is used as input for the LocaleInformationPreparer and holds the info for valid localizations. The locale en_US must always be created to allow the EMC to work. The Syntax is: key = <isoLanguageCode> <isoCountryCode> <isoCurrencyCode> <usedAsLeadLocale> |
||
german |
de DE EUR true |
String |
See description above. |

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.