---
id: 'a50b70a1149e9c7be581cfc63cdd1eed'
title: 'Reference'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/29957A'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:37:08.027941+00:00'
---
This API specification is available for download as an Open API 3.0 YAML file:

# References

The following page lists available REST APIs for ICM 7.10 and their version dependencies:

# API Specification

openapi: 3.0.1 info: title: Product & Category description: "# Product & Catalog API\n\n## Personalized Content\n\nThe call can\ \ contain customer-segment specific details, e.g. prices.\n\nIf the `spgid` parameter\ \ is not provided, the cached version of the call is returned. Use the `spgid`\ \ parameter to retrieve a customer-segment specific version.\n\nFor authenticated\ \ REST calls, use the `spgid` parameter in the URL. Otherwise the request will\ \ be considered anonymous, even if authentication is provided in the header.\n\ \nExample: `/products;spgid=12345`\n\nUse the `/personalization` call to retrieve\ \ the spgid.\n\n\n## Product Filters\n\nThe new `/productfilters` endpoint replaces\ \ the deprecated `/filters` endpoint.\n\n### Using the Product Filters Endpoint\n\ \nThe `/products` endpoint returns available products. The results can be filtered\ \ by search term and product filters.\nThe `/categories/{categoryID}/products`\ \ endpoint returns available products for a specific category. The results can\ \ be filtered by search term, product filters and predefined product filters (via\ \ the productFilter query parameter).\nThe `/productfilters` endpoint is used\ \ to fetch said filters and filter entries.\nThe interaction between these endpoints\ \ is illustrated in the following sections:\n\n### Selection of Filter Entry\n\ \nTo start, fetch the available filters for a search term.\n\n**Example:** `/productfilters?searchTerm=camera`\ \ fetches filters which are applicable for products matching the search term \"\ camera\".\n\nThe result list of the endpoint contains further filters that can\ \ be applied in addition to the current filters. They can be applied by using\ \ the URI provided in the `link` field.\n\n**Example:** `/productfilters?searchTerm=camera&Colour_of_product=Black`\ \ applies the filter `Colour_of_product=Black` to the current query.\n\nIt is\ \ possible to select multiple entries for a filter. If an attribute is a multi-value,\ \ then combinations of these values are made available in the list of filter entries.\n\ \n**Example:** `/productfilters?searchTerm=camera&Colour_of_product=Black_or_Blue`\ \ adds `Blue` to the filter.\n\nIt is also possible to deselect entries. If a\ \ filter entry is selected, its `link` field will provide a link to deselect this\ \ entry.\n**Example:** `/productfilters?searchTerm=camera&Colour_of_product=Blue`\n\ \n### Retrieving Product Hits\n\nTo fetch the products that match the given search\ \ term and selected filters, use the link provided in the `hits` field.\nThe existing\ \ query parameters that apply to the product list endpoint may be added to this\ \ query.\n\n**Example:** `/categories/Cameras-Camcorders/products?searchTerm=camera&Colour_of_product=Black_or_Blue&amount=12`\ \ fetches a maximum of 12 products matching these filters in the Cameras-Camcorders\ \ category.\n\n### Navigation\n\nThe same filters can also be used when navigating\ \ through the category tree.\n\n**Example:** `/categories/Cameras-Camcorders/832/productfilters?productFilter=fallback_searchquerydefinition`\ \ fetches filters that are available in the respective subcategory.\n\n\n## Product\ \ SKU\n\nIf the product SKU uses special characters (\"/\", \":\", ...), then\ \ it needs to be double [encoded](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/percent-encoding).\n\ \nThe SKU in the links in the responses are also double encoded, so they may be\ \ directly used.\n\n**Example** \nproduct: Using double encoding for ```a/b```,\ \ it becomes ```a%252Fb```.\n" contact: name: Intershop Communications AG url: http://intershop.com version: 1.3.0 servers: - url: "/INTERSHOP/rest/{serverGroup}/{siteName}/{appUrl}" description: Intershop ICM Server variables: serverGroup: description: The server group default: WFS siteName: description: The site name default: inSPIRED-inTRONICS-Site appUrl: description: The application URL identifier enum: - smb-responsive - "-" default: smb-responsive paths: '{loc}{cur}/products{spgid}/{productKey}': get: tags: - Product summary: Returns details of a product description: "This operation retrieves information for one product, usually\ \ in order to render a product details page.\n" operationId: getProductSingle parameters: - $ref: '#/components/parameters/loc' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/cur' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/spgid' x-matrixParamPath: products - name: attrs in: query description: "Allows to retrieve specific data for the product. The parameters\ \ view and attrs can be combined.\n\nSeparate multiple values with comma.\n\ \nAvailable values are every field in the ProductRO class, as well as other\ \ attributes that may be set in the product.\n" schema: type: string description: "Allows to retrieve specific data for the product. The parameters\ \ view and attrs can be combined.\n\nSeparate multiple values with comma.\n\ \nAvailable values are every field in the ProductRO class, as well as\ \ other attributes that may be set in the product.\n" example: "sku,inStock,manufacturer" example: "sku,inStock,manufacturer" - name: view in: query description: "ID of a custom view.\n\nIt is possible to define alternative\ \ views on the product stubs (i.e., which attributes which shall be returned,\ \ instead of listing them all individually in the `attrs` parameter.) This\ \ can be done in a WebshopREST.properties file on domain level.\n\nThe parameters\ \ `view` and `attrs` can be combined." schema: type: string description: "ID of a custom view.\n\nIt is possible to define alternative\ \ views on the product stubs (i.e., which attributes which shall be returned,\ \ instead of listing them all individually in the `attrs` parameter.)\ \ This can be done in a WebshopREST.properties file on domain level.\n\ \nThe parameters `view` and `attrs` can be combined." example: default default: default example: default - name: imageView in: query description: "By default the response contains images of all image views that\ \ are maintained for this product. To receive only images of a specific\ \ image view, provide an image view ID. The possible values depend on the\ \ Image Management configuration in the ICM.\n\nOnly one value allowed.\n" schema: type: string description: "By default the response contains images of all image views\ \ that are maintained for this product. To receive only images of a specific\ \ image view, provide an image view ID. The possible values depend on\ \ the Image Management configuration in the ICM.\n\nOnly one value allowed.\n" example: front example: front - name: imageType in: query description: "By default the response contains images of all image types that\ \ are maintained for this product. To receive only images of a specific\ \ image view, provide an image view ID. The possible values depend on the\ \ Image Management configuration in the ICM.\n\nOnly one value allowed.\n" schema: type: string description: "By default the response contains images of all image types\ \ that are maintained for this product. To receive only images of a specific\ \ image view, provide an image view ID. The possible values depend on\ \ the Image Management configuration in the ICM.\n\nOnly one value allowed.\n" example: 2XS example: 2XS - name: allImages in: query description: Specify whether the response should contain all or no images. schema: type: string description: Specify whether the response should contain all or no images. example: "true" default: "false" example: "true" - name: basketId in: query description: Allows to retrieve prices based on country specific taxes for the specified basket ID. schema: type: string description: Allows to retrieve prices based on country specific taxes for the specified basket ID. example: 3CwKDgAFvUgAAAF3PScz6KVy example: 3CwKDgAFvUgAAAF3PScz6KVy - name: invoiceToAddressId in: query description: Allows to retrieve prices based on country specific taxes for the specified address ID. schema: type: string description: Allows to retrieve prices based on country specific taxes for the specified address ID. example: QdasEQAFJKAAAAF3o89ZTnFf example: QdasEQAFJKAAAAF3o89ZTnFf - name: shipToAddressId in: query description: Allows to retrieve prices based on country specific taxes for the specified shipping address ID. schema: type: string description: Allows to retrieve prices based on country specific taxes for the specified shipping address ID. example: QdasEQAFJKAAAAF3o89ZTnFf example: QdasEQAFJKAAAAF3o89ZTnFf - name: shipFromAddressId in: query description: Allows to retrieve prices based on country specific taxes for the specified sender address ID. schema: type: string description: Allows to retrieve prices based on country specific taxes for the specified sender address ID. example: SX6sEQAFMaYAAAF33DhZTnFf example: SX6sEQAFMaYAAAF33DhZTnFf - name: extended in: query description: Set to `true` to fetch extended information on product variations. schema: type: boolean description: Set to `true` to fetch extended information on product variations. example: false default: false example: "false" - name: productKey in: path description: The product ID required: true schema: type: string description: The product ID example: "4841578" example: "4841578" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductListResource responses: "200": description: OK - The product with the given ID. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ProductRO' text/xml: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ProductRO' "404": description: Not found - The product could not be found. security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: "public com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resourceobject.ProductRO\ \ com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductResource.getProduct(java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,boolean)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductResource '{loc}{cur}/products{spgid}/{productKey}/categories': get: tags: - Product - Categories summary: Returns categories of a product description: This operation returns a list of all categories to which the product is explicitly or dynamically assigned. operationId: getCategoriesResource parameters: - $ref: '#/components/parameters/loc' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/cur' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/spgid' x-matrixParamPath: products - name: productKey in: path description: The product ID required: true schema: type: string description: The product ID example: "4841578" example: "4841578" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductListResource responses: "200": description: OK - The categories of the given product. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceCollectionROLinkRO' text/xml: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceCollectionROLinkRO' "404": description: Not found - The product could not be found. security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: public com.intershop.component.rest.capi.resourceobject.ResourceCollectionRO com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductResource.getCategories() x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductResource '{loc}{cur}/products/{productKey}/variations/search': post: tags: - Product summary: Returns variation of a product by search description: This operation returns a product variation for a product by searching for product attributes. operationId: searchVariationsPOST parameters: - $ref: '#/components/parameters/loc' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/cur' - name: productKey in: path description: The product ID required: true schema: type: string description: The product ID example: "4841578" example: "4841578" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductListResource requestBody: description: The request body that contains the product attributes to search for. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ProductSearchAttributesRO' text/xml: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ProductSearchAttributesRO' responses: "200": description: OK - The product variation. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ProductRO' text/xml: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ProductRO' "400": description: Bad request - The product is not a product master. security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: "public com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resourceobject.ProductRO\ \ com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.product.VariationResource.searchVariations(javax.ws.rs.core.UriInfo,com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resourceobject.ProductSearchAttributesRO)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.product.VariationResource '{loc}{cur}/productfilters': get: tags: - Filter summary: Returns product filters description: "This operation retrieves a list of product filters.\n\n# Advanced\ \ Variation Handling\n\nThis resource can be filtered by search index attributes\ \ (if specified in the back office).\nHowever, if you filter specifically\ \ by MasterSKU, there is a slightly different behavior: When you pass this\ \ parameter, you only get filters for variation attributes instead of all\ \ filters. The filter values count represents the number of available variations\ \ with that filter value.\n\nExample: ```/productfilters?MasterSKU=M123```\ \ will exclude filters like *price* or *category* to show variation attributes\ \ only. \n" operationId: getProductFilters parameters: - $ref: '#/components/parameters/loc' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/cur' - name: searchTerm in: query description: An optional search term schema: type: string description: An optional search term - name: productFilter in: query description: A product filter id to be used for category navigation or search respectively schema: type: string description: A product filter id to be used for category navigation or search respectively example: sort_by_price example: sort_by_price responses: "200": description: OK - The list of productfilters. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceCollectionROFilterRO' "404": description: Not found "503": description: Service unavailable security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: "public com.intershop.component.rest.capi.resourceobject.ResourceCollectionRO\ \ com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductFiltersResource.getProductFilters(java.lang.String,java.lang.String)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductFiltersResource '{loc}{cur}/categories/{categoriesKey}/products{spgid}/{productKey}/links': get: tags: - Product summary: Returns product links of a product description: This operation returns all product links of a product. The links are grouped by type and contains both linked products and categories. operationId: getProductLinksGETProductLinks_1 parameters: - $ref: '#/components/parameters/loc' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/cur' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/spgid' x-matrixParamPath: products - name: linkType in: query description: The type of links to retrieve schema: type: string description: The type of links to retrieve example: accessory example: accessory - name: targetObject in: query description: The target of the links to fetch schema: type: string description: The target of the links to fetch example: product enum: - product - category example: product - name: categoriesKey in: path description: The category path that includes the complete path from the catalog to the current category. required: true schema: type: string description: The category path that includes the complete path from the catalog to the current category. example: Computers/3001/222 example: Computers/3001/222 x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.category.CategoryListResource - name: productKey in: path description: The product ID required: true schema: type: string description: The product ID example: "4841578" example: "4841578" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductListResource responses: "200": description: OK - The links for the given product. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/TypedLinksCollectionRO' text/xml: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/TypedLinksCollectionRO' "400": description: Bad request - The query parameters are invalid. "404": description: Not found - The product could not be found. security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: "public com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resourceobject.TypedLinkRO$TypedLinksCollectionRO\ \ com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductLinksResource.getProductLinks(java.lang.String,java.lang.String)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductLinksResource '{loc}{cur}/categories{spgid}': get: tags: - Categories summary: Returns top-level categories or category tree description: | This operation returns a list of all top-level categories (catalogs). The sorting is as defined in the ICM (manual or dynamic sorting). Use the `view` parameter to retrieve the whole category tree. This can be used to render the shop's main navigation. operationId: getCategoryListResource parameters: - $ref: '#/components/parameters/loc' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/cur' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/spgid' x-matrixParamPath: categories - name: imageView in: query description: "By default the response contains images of all image views that\ \ are maintained for this product. To receive only images of a specific\ \ image view, provide an image view ID. The possible values depend on the\ \ Image Management configuration in the ICM.\n\nOnly one value allowed.\n" schema: type: string description: "By default the response contains images of all image views\ \ that are maintained for this product. To receive only images of a specific\ \ image view, provide an image view ID. The possible values depend on\ \ the Image Management configuration in the ICM.\n\nOnly one value allowed.\n" example: front example: front - name: imageType in: query description: "By default the response contains images of all image types that\ \ are maintained for this product. To receive only images of a specific\ \ image view, provide an image view ID. The possible values depend on the\ \ Image Management configuration in the ICM.\n\nOnly one value allowed.\n" schema: type: string description: "By default the response contains images of all image types\ \ that are maintained for this product. To receive only images of a specific\ \ image view, provide an image view ID. The possible values depend on\ \ the Image Management configuration in the ICM.\n\nOnly one value allowed.\n" example: 2XS example: 2XS - name: allImages in: query description: Specifies whether images in all image views and image types should be returned. schema: type: string description: Specifies whether images in all image views and image types should be returned. example: "true" default: "false" example: "true" - name: view in: query description: "Use this parameter to retrieve the whole category hierarchy,\ \ not just the top-level." schema: type: string description: "Use this parameter to retrieve the whole category hierarchy,\ \ not just the top-level." example: tree enum: - tree example: tree - name: limit in: query description: Restrict the number of levels which are included in the response. Use in combination with `view`. schema: type: string description: Restrict the number of levels which are included in the response. Use in combination with `view`. example: "2" example: "2" - name: omitHasOnlineProducts in: query description: "If true, the field `hasOnlineProducts` will not be resolved\ \ for subcategories." schema: type: boolean description: "If true, the field `hasOnlineProducts` will not be resolved\ \ for subcategories." example: true default: false example: "true" responses: "200": description: OK - The list of categories. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/CategoryCollectionRO' text/xml: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/CategoryCollectionRO' security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: "public com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resourceobject.CategoryRO$CategoryCollectionRO\ \ com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.category.CategoryListResource.getCategory(java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.Boolean)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.category.CategoryListResource '{loc}{cur}/categories/{categoriesKey}/products{spgid}/{productKey}/variations': get: tags: - Product summary: Returns variations of a product description: This operation returns a list of all variation products for a variation master. operationId: getVariationsGET_1 parameters: - $ref: '#/components/parameters/loc' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/cur' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/spgid' x-matrixParamPath: products - name: pageable in: query description: "Use for paging through long result lists.\n\nEach response contains\ \ a `pageable` attribute. Use this ID fur subsequent requests (e.g., to\ \ get the data for the next page) to ensure consistent data.\n" schema: type: string description: "Use for paging through long result lists.\n\nEach response\ \ contains a `pageable` attribute. Use this ID fur subsequent requests\ \ (e.g., to get the data for the next page) to ensure consistent data.\n" example: z_AKDgAFmPAAAAF3hRExUPze example: z_AKDgAFmPAAAAF3hRExUPze - name: offset in: query description: "Retrieve one specific set of results from a long list, like\ \ a page number.\n\nUse with `pageable` and `amount`." schema: type: integer description: "Retrieve one specific set of results from a long list, like\ \ a page number.\n\nUse with `pageable` and `amount`." format: int32 example: 2 default: 0 example: "2" - name: amount in: query description: Number of items to be returned. schema: type: integer description: Number of items to be returned. format: int32 example: 30 default: 50 example: "30" - name: extended in: query description: Set to `true` to fetch extended information on product variations schema: type: boolean description: Set to `true` to fetch extended information on product variations example: false default: false example: "false" - name: categoriesKey in: path description: The category path that includes the complete path from the catalog to the current category. required: true schema: type: string description: The category path that includes the complete path from the catalog to the current category. example: Computers/3001/222 example: Computers/3001/222 x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.category.CategoryListResource - name: productKey in: path description: The product ID required: true schema: type: string description: The product ID example: "4841578" example: "4841578" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductListResource responses: "200": description: OK - The variations of the given product. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/VariationCollectionRO' text/xml: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/VariationCollectionRO' "404": description: Not found security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: "public com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resourceobject.VariationAttributeRO$VariationCollectionRO\ \ com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.product.VariationResource.getVariations(java.lang.String,java.lang.Integer,java.lang.Integer,boolean)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.product.VariationResource '{loc}{cur}/categories/{categoriesKey}/productfilters': get: tags: - Filter summary: Returns product filters description: "This operation retrieves a list of product filters for a given\ \ category.\n\n# Advanced Variation Handling\n\nThis resource can be filtered\ \ by search index attributes (if specified in the back office).\nHowever,\ \ if you filter specifically by MasterSKU, there is a slightly different behavior:\ \ When you pass this parameter, you only get filters for variation attributes\ \ instead of all filters.\n\nExample: ```/productfilters?MasterSKU=M123```\ \ will exclude filters like *price* or *category* to show variation attributes\ \ only.\n" operationId: getProductFilters_1 parameters: - $ref: '#/components/parameters/loc' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/cur' - name: searchTerm in: query description: An optional search term schema: type: string description: An optional search term - name: productFilter in: query description: A product filter id to be used within categories schema: type: string description: A product filter id to be used within categories example: sort_by_price example: sort_by_price - name: categoriesKey in: path description: The category path that includes the complete path from the catalog to the current category. required: true schema: type: string description: The category path that includes the complete path from the catalog to the current category. example: Computers/3001/222 example: Computers/3001/222 x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.category.CategoryListResource responses: "200": description: OK - The productfilters for the given category. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceCollectionROFilterRO' "404": description: Not found - The category could not be found. "503": description: Service unavailable security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: "public com.intershop.component.rest.capi.resourceobject.ResourceCollectionRO\ \ com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.CategoryProductFiltersResource.getProductFilters(java.lang.String,java.lang.String)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.CategoryProductFiltersResource '{loc}{cur}/categories/{categoriesKey}/products{spgid}/{productKey}/crosssells': get: tags: - Product summary: Returns product cross sells description: This operation returns a list of cross sells of a product. operationId: getProductCrossSellsGETcross_1 parameters: - $ref: '#/components/parameters/loc' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/cur' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/spgid' x-matrixParamPath: products - name: categoriesKey in: path description: The category path that includes the complete path from the catalog to the current category. required: true schema: type: string description: The category path that includes the complete path from the catalog to the current category. example: Computers/3001/222 example: Computers/3001/222 x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.category.CategoryListResource - name: productKey in: path description: The product ID required: true schema: type: string description: The product ID example: "4841578" example: "4841578" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductListResource responses: "200": description: OK - The cross sells of the given product. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceCollectionROLinkRO' text/xml: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceCollectionROLinkRO' "404": description: Not found - The product could not be found. security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: public com.intershop.component.rest.capi.resourceobject.ResourceCollectionRO com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductResource.getProductCrossSells() x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductResource '{loc}{cur}/products{spgid}/{productKey}/bundles': get: tags: - Product summary: Returns bundled products description: This operation returns list of all bundled products for a bundle. operationId: getBundledProductsGETbundles parameters: - $ref: '#/components/parameters/loc' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/cur' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/spgid' x-matrixParamPath: products - name: pageable in: query description: "Use for paging through long result lists.\n\nEach response contains\ \ a `pageable` attribute. Use this ID fur subsequent requests (e.g., to\ \ get the data for the next page) to ensure consistent data.\n" schema: type: string description: "Use for paging through long result lists.\n\nEach response\ \ contains a `pageable` attribute. Use this ID fur subsequent requests\ \ (e.g., to get the data for the next page) to ensure consistent data.\n" example: z_AKDgAFmPAAAAF3hRExUPze example: z_AKDgAFmPAAAAF3hRExUPze - name: offset in: query description: "Retrieve one specific set of results from a long list, like\ \ a page number.\n\nUse with `pageable` and `amount`." schema: type: integer description: "Retrieve one specific set of results from a long list, like\ \ a page number.\n\nUse with `pageable` and `amount`." format: int32 example: 2 default: 0 example: "2" - name: amount in: query description: Number of items to be returned. schema: type: integer description: Number of items to be returned. format: int32 example: 30 default: 50 example: "30" - name: productKey in: path description: The product ID required: true schema: type: string description: The product ID example: "4841578" example: "4841578" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductListResource responses: "200": description: OK - The bundled products. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceCollectionROLinkRO' text/xml: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceCollectionROLinkRO' "404": description: Not found - The product could not be found. security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: "public com.intershop.component.rest.capi.resourceobject.ResourceCollectionRO\ \ com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductResource.getBundledProducts(java.lang.String,java.lang.Integer,java.lang.Integer)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductResource '{loc}{cur}/categories{spgid}/{categoriesKey}': get: tags: - Categories summary: Returns category info description: |- This operation returns information about a category. Use the `view` parameter to retrieve the whole category tree for this category. operationId: getCategory parameters: - name: categoriesKey in: path description: "Either a category path that includes the complete path from\ \ the catalog to the current category, or a category reference, as given\ \ in the `categoryRef` field." required: true schema: type: string example: Computers/3001/222 - $ref: '#/components/parameters/loc' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/cur' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/spgid' x-matrixParamPath: categories - name: view in: query description: "Use this parameter to retrieve the whole category hierarchy,\ \ not just the top-level." schema: type: string description: "Use this parameter to retrieve the whole category hierarchy,\ \ not just the top-level." example: tree enum: - tree example: tree - name: limit in: query description: Restrict the number of levels which are included in the response. Use in combination with `view`. schema: type: string description: Restrict the number of levels which are included in the response. Use in combination with `view`. example: "2" example: "2" - name: imageView in: query description: "By default the response contains images of all image views that\ \ are maintained for this product. To receive only images of a specific\ \ image view, provide an image view ID. The possible values depend on the\ \ Image Management configuration in the ICM.\n\nOnly one value allowed.\n" schema: type: string description: "By default the response contains images of all image views\ \ that are maintained for this product. To receive only images of a specific\ \ image view, provide an image view ID. The possible values depend on\ \ the Image Management configuration in the ICM.\n\nOnly one value allowed.\n" example: front example: front - name: imageType in: query description: "By default the response contains images of all image types that\ \ are maintained for this product. To receive only images of a specific\ \ image view, provide an image view ID. The possible values depend on the\ \ Image Management configuration in the ICM.\n\nOnly one value allowed.\n" schema: type: string description: "By default the response contains images of all image types\ \ that are maintained for this product. To receive only images of a specific\ \ image view, provide an image view ID. The possible values depend on\ \ the Image Management configuration in the ICM.\n\nOnly one value allowed.\n" example: 2XS example: 2XS - name: allImages in: query description: Specifies whether images in all image views and image types should be returned. schema: type: string description: Specifies whether images in all image views and image types should be returned. example: "true" default: "false" example: "true" - name: omitHasOnlineProducts in: query description: "If true, the field `hasOnlineProducts` will not be resolved\ \ for subcategories." schema: type: boolean description: "If true, the field `hasOnlineProducts` will not be resolved\ \ for subcategories." example: true default: false example: "true" responses: "200": description: OK - The category with the given ID. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/CategoryRO' text/xml: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/CategoryRO' "404": description: Not found - The category could not be found. security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: "public com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resourceobject.CategoryRO\ \ com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.category.CategoryResource.getCategory(java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.Boolean)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.category.CategoryResource '{loc}{cur}/categories/{categoriesKey}/links': get: tags: - Categories summary: Returns category links of a category description: |- This operation returns a list of all products and categories which are assigned as links to the category. It is possible to filter by link type and by product/category. operationId: getCategoryLinks parameters: - $ref: '#/components/parameters/loc' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/cur' - name: linkType in: query description: Limit the response to one link type. schema: type: string description: Limit the response to one link type. example: accessory example: accessory - name: targetObject in: query description: Limit the response to either `product` or `category` results. schema: type: string description: Limit the response to either `product` or `category` results. example: product enum: - product - category example: product - name: categoriesKey in: path description: The category path that includes the complete path from the catalog to the current category. required: true schema: type: string description: The category path that includes the complete path from the catalog to the current category. example: Computers/3001/222 example: Computers/3001/222 x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.category.CategoryListResource responses: "200": description: OK - The links for the given category. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceCollectionROTypedLinkRO' text/xml: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceCollectionROTypedLinkRO' "404": description: Not found - The category could not be found. "400": description: Bad request - The query parameters are invalid. security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: "public com.intershop.component.rest.capi.resourceobject.ResourceCollectionRO\ \ com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.CategoryLinksResource.getCategoryLinks(java.lang.String,java.lang.String)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.CategoryLinksResource '{loc}{cur}/categories/{categoriesKey}/products{spgid}/{productKey}': get: tags: - Product summary: Returns details of a product description: "This operation retrieves information for one product, usually\ \ in order to render a product details page.\n" operationId: getProductSingle_1 parameters: - $ref: '#/components/parameters/loc' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/cur' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/spgid' x-matrixParamPath: products - name: attrs in: query description: "Allows to retrieve specific data for the product. The parameters\ \ view and attrs can be combined.\n\nSeparate multiple values with comma.\n\ \nAvailable values are every field in the ProductRO class, as well as other\ \ attributes that may be set in the product.\n" schema: type: string description: "Allows to retrieve specific data for the product. The parameters\ \ view and attrs can be combined.\n\nSeparate multiple values with comma.\n\ \nAvailable values are every field in the ProductRO class, as well as\ \ other attributes that may be set in the product.\n" example: "sku,inStock,manufacturer" example: "sku,inStock,manufacturer" - name: view in: query description: "ID of a custom view.\n\nIt is possible to define alternative\ \ views on the product stubs (i.e., which attributes which shall be returned,\ \ instead of listing them all individually in the `attrs` parameter.) This\ \ can be done in a WebshopREST.properties file on domain level.\n\nThe parameters\ \ `view` and `attrs` can be combined." schema: type: string description: "ID of a custom view.\n\nIt is possible to define alternative\ \ views on the product stubs (i.e., which attributes which shall be returned,\ \ instead of listing them all individually in the `attrs` parameter.)\ \ This can be done in a WebshopREST.properties file on domain level.\n\ \nThe parameters `view` and `attrs` can be combined." example: default default: default example: default - name: imageView in: query description: "By default the response contains images of all image views that\ \ are maintained for this product. To receive only images of a specific\ \ image view, provide an image view ID. The possible values depend on the\ \ Image Management configuration in the ICM.\n\nOnly one value allowed.\n" schema: type: string description: "By default the response contains images of all image views\ \ that are maintained for this product. To receive only images of a specific\ \ image view, provide an image view ID. The possible values depend on\ \ the Image Management configuration in the ICM.\n\nOnly one value allowed.\n" example: front example: front - name: imageType in: query description: "By default the response contains images of all image types that\ \ are maintained for this product. To receive only images of a specific\ \ image view, provide an image view ID. The possible values depend on the\ \ Image Management configuration in the ICM.\n\nOnly one value allowed.\n" schema: type: string description: "By default the response contains images of all image types\ \ that are maintained for this product. To receive only images of a specific\ \ image view, provide an image view ID. The possible values depend on\ \ the Image Management configuration in the ICM.\n\nOnly one value allowed.\n" example: 2XS example: 2XS - name: allImages in: query description: Specify whether the response should contain all or no images. schema: type: string description: Specify whether the response should contain all or no images. example: "true" default: "false" example: "true" - name: basketId in: query description: Allows to retrieve prices based on country specific taxes for the specified basket ID. schema: type: string description: Allows to retrieve prices based on country specific taxes for the specified basket ID. example: 3CwKDgAFvUgAAAF3PScz6KVy example: 3CwKDgAFvUgAAAF3PScz6KVy - name: invoiceToAddressId in: query description: Allows to retrieve prices based on country specific taxes for the specified address ID. schema: type: string description: Allows to retrieve prices based on country specific taxes for the specified address ID. example: QdasEQAFJKAAAAF3o89ZTnFf example: QdasEQAFJKAAAAF3o89ZTnFf - name: shipToAddressId in: query description: Allows to retrieve prices based on country specific taxes for the specified shipping address ID. schema: type: string description: Allows to retrieve prices based on country specific taxes for the specified shipping address ID. example: QdasEQAFJKAAAAF3o89ZTnFf example: QdasEQAFJKAAAAF3o89ZTnFf - name: shipFromAddressId in: query description: Allows to retrieve prices based on country specific taxes for the specified sender address ID. schema: type: string description: Allows to retrieve prices based on country specific taxes for the specified sender address ID. example: SX6sEQAFMaYAAAF33DhZTnFf example: SX6sEQAFMaYAAAF33DhZTnFf - name: extended in: query description: Set to `true` to fetch extended information on product variations. schema: type: boolean description: Set to `true` to fetch extended information on product variations. example: false default: false example: "false" - name: categoriesKey in: path description: The category path that includes the complete path from the catalog to the current category. required: true schema: type: string description: The category path that includes the complete path from the catalog to the current category. example: Computers/3001/222 example: Computers/3001/222 x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.category.CategoryListResource - name: productKey in: path description: The product ID required: true schema: type: string description: The product ID example: "4841578" example: "4841578" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductListResource responses: "200": description: OK - The product with the given ID. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ProductRO' text/xml: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ProductRO' "404": description: Not found - The product could not be found. security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: "public com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resourceobject.ProductRO\ \ com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductResource.getProduct(java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,boolean)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductResource '{loc}{cur}/categories/{categoriesKey}/products/{productKey}/variations/search': post: tags: - Product summary: Returns variation of a product by search description: This operation returns a product variation for a product by searching for product attributes. operationId: searchVariationsPOST_1 parameters: - $ref: '#/components/parameters/loc' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/cur' - name: categoriesKey in: path description: The category path that includes the complete path from the catalog to the current category. required: true schema: type: string description: The category path that includes the complete path from the catalog to the current category. example: Computers/3001/222 example: Computers/3001/222 x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.category.CategoryListResource - name: productKey in: path description: The product ID required: true schema: type: string description: The product ID example: "4841578" example: "4841578" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductListResource requestBody: description: The request body that contains the product attributes to search for. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ProductSearchAttributesRO' text/xml: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ProductSearchAttributesRO' responses: "200": description: OK - The product variation. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ProductRO' text/xml: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ProductRO' "400": description: Bad request - The product is not a product master. security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: "public com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resourceobject.ProductRO\ \ com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.product.VariationResource.searchVariations(javax.ws.rs.core.UriInfo,com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resourceobject.ProductSearchAttributesRO)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.product.VariationResource '{loc}{cur}/categories/{categoriesKey}/products{spgid}/{productKey}/bundles': get: tags: - Product summary: Returns bundled products description: This operation returns list of all bundled products for a bundle. operationId: getBundledProductsGETbundles_1 parameters: - $ref: '#/components/parameters/loc' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/cur' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/spgid' x-matrixParamPath: products - name: pageable in: query description: "Use for paging through long result lists.\n\nEach response contains\ \ a `pageable` attribute. Use this ID fur subsequent requests (e.g., to\ \ get the data for the next page) to ensure consistent data.\n" schema: type: string description: "Use for paging through long result lists.\n\nEach response\ \ contains a `pageable` attribute. Use this ID fur subsequent requests\ \ (e.g., to get the data for the next page) to ensure consistent data.\n" example: z_AKDgAFmPAAAAF3hRExUPze example: z_AKDgAFmPAAAAF3hRExUPze - name: offset in: query description: "Retrieve one specific set of results from a long list, like\ \ a page number.\n\nUse with `pageable` and `amount`." schema: type: integer description: "Retrieve one specific set of results from a long list, like\ \ a page number.\n\nUse with `pageable` and `amount`." format: int32 example: 2 default: 0 example: "2" - name: amount in: query description: Number of items to be returned. schema: type: integer description: Number of items to be returned. format: int32 example: 30 default: 50 example: "30" - name: categoriesKey in: path description: The category path that includes the complete path from the catalog to the current category. required: true schema: type: string description: The category path that includes the complete path from the catalog to the current category. example: Computers/3001/222 example: Computers/3001/222 x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.category.CategoryListResource - name: productKey in: path description: The product ID required: true schema: type: string description: The product ID example: "4841578" example: "4841578" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductListResource responses: "200": description: OK - The bundled products. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceCollectionROLinkRO' text/xml: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceCollectionROLinkRO' "404": description: Not found - The product could not be found. security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: "public com.intershop.component.rest.capi.resourceobject.ResourceCollectionRO\ \ com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductResource.getBundledProducts(java.lang.String,java.lang.Integer,java.lang.Integer)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductResource '{loc}{cur}/products{spgid}/{productKey}/partOfRetailSet': get: tags: - Product summary: Returns products of retail set description: This operation returns a list of all products assigned to a retail set. operationId: getPartOfRetailSetGETRetailSet parameters: - $ref: '#/components/parameters/loc' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/cur' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/spgid' x-matrixParamPath: products - name: pageable in: query description: "Use for paging through long result lists.\n\nEach response contains\ \ a `pageable` attribute. Use this ID fur subsequent requests (e.g., to\ \ get the data for the next page) to ensure consistent data.\n" schema: type: string description: "Use for paging through long result lists.\n\nEach response\ \ contains a `pageable` attribute. Use this ID fur subsequent requests\ \ (e.g., to get the data for the next page) to ensure consistent data.\n" example: z_AKDgAFmPAAAAF3hRExUPze example: z_AKDgAFmPAAAAF3hRExUPze - name: offset in: query description: "Retrieve one specific set of results from a long list, like\ \ a page number.\n\nUse with `pageable` and `amount`." schema: type: integer description: "Retrieve one specific set of results from a long list, like\ \ a page number.\n\nUse with `pageable` and `amount`." format: int32 example: 2 default: 0 example: "2" - name: amount in: query description: Number of items to be returned. schema: type: integer description: Number of items to be returned. format: int32 example: 30 default: 50 example: "30" - name: productKey in: path description: The product ID required: true schema: type: string description: The product ID example: "4841578" example: "4841578" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductListResource responses: "200": description: OK - The products assigned to the retail set. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceCollectionROLinkRO' text/xml: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceCollectionROLinkRO' "404": description: Not found - The product could not be found. security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: "public com.intershop.component.rest.capi.resourceobject.ResourceCollectionRO\ \ com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductResource.getPartOfRetailSet(java.lang.String,java.lang.Integer,java.lang.Integer)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductResource '{loc}{cur}/products{spgid}/{productKey}/variations': get: tags: - Product summary: Returns variations of a product description: This operation returns a list of all variation products for a variation master. operationId: getVariationsGET parameters: - $ref: '#/components/parameters/loc' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/cur' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/spgid' x-matrixParamPath: products - name: pageable in: query description: "Use for paging through long result lists.\n\nEach response contains\ \ a `pageable` attribute. Use this ID fur subsequent requests (e.g., to\ \ get the data for the next page) to ensure consistent data.\n" schema: type: string description: "Use for paging through long result lists.\n\nEach response\ \ contains a `pageable` attribute. Use this ID fur subsequent requests\ \ (e.g., to get the data for the next page) to ensure consistent data.\n" example: z_AKDgAFmPAAAAF3hRExUPze example: z_AKDgAFmPAAAAF3hRExUPze - name: offset in: query description: "Retrieve one specific set of results from a long list, like\ \ a page number.\n\nUse with `pageable` and `amount`." schema: type: integer description: "Retrieve one specific set of results from a long list, like\ \ a page number.\n\nUse with `pageable` and `amount`." format: int32 example: 2 default: 0 example: "2" - name: amount in: query description: Number of items to be returned. schema: type: integer description: Number of items to be returned. format: int32 example: 30 default: 50 example: "30" - name: extended in: query description: Set to `true` to fetch extended information on product variations schema: type: boolean description: Set to `true` to fetch extended information on product variations example: false default: false example: "false" - name: productKey in: path description: The product ID required: true schema: type: string description: The product ID example: "4841578" example: "4841578" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductListResource responses: "200": description: OK - The variations of the given product. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/VariationCollectionRO' text/xml: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/VariationCollectionRO' "404": description: Not found security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: "public com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resourceobject.VariationAttributeRO$VariationCollectionRO\ \ com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.product.VariationResource.getVariations(java.lang.String,java.lang.Integer,java.lang.Integer,boolean)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.product.VariationResource '{loc}{cur}/products{spgid}': get: tags: - Product summary: Returns products by search description: "This operation returns a list of products for a given search expression.\ \ The response contains product stubs which allow to render product lists\ \ efficiently.\n\n# Advanced Variation Handling\n\nThis resource can be filtered\ \ by search index attributes (if specified in the back office).\nHowever,\ \ if you filter specifically by MasterSKU, there is a slightly different behavior:\ \ When you pass this parameter, you will get all variations instead of just\ \ the default one.\n\nExample: ```/products?MasterSKU=M123``` will return\ \ all variations for the Product Master M123.\n\nNote: If no other sorting\ \ is specified, the sorting configured in the back office will be used for\ \ product variations." operationId: getProductsListResource parameters: - $ref: '#/components/parameters/loc' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/cur' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/spgid' x-matrixParamPath: products - name: pageable in: query description: "Use for paging through long result lists.\n\nEach response contains\ \ a `pageable` attribute. Use this ID fur subsequent requests (e.g., to\ \ get the data for the next page) to ensure consistent data.\n" schema: type: string description: "Use for paging through long result lists.\n\nEach response\ \ contains a `pageable` attribute. Use this ID fur subsequent requests\ \ (e.g., to get the data for the next page) to ensure consistent data.\n" example: z_AKDgAFmPAAAAF3hRExUPze example: z_AKDgAFmPAAAAF3hRExUPze - name: offset in: query description: "Retrieve one specific set of results from a long list, like\ \ a page number.\n\nUse with `pageable` and `amount`." schema: type: integer description: "Retrieve one specific set of results from a long list, like\ \ a page number.\n\nUse with `pageable` and `amount`." format: int32 example: 2 default: 0 example: "2" - name: amount in: query description: Number of items to be returned. schema: type: integer description: Number of items to be returned. format: int32 example: 30 default: 50 example: "30" - name: sortKey in: query description: Define the sorting order of the products. Products can be sorted by name (name-asc or name-desc) or list price (value-asc or value-desc). schema: type: string description: Define the sorting order of the products. Products can be sorted by name (name-asc or name-desc) or list price (value-asc or value-desc). example: name-asc enum: - name-asc - name-desc - value-asc - value-desc example: name-asc - name: returnSortKeys in: query description: Set to true to retrieve the available values for sortKey. schema: type: boolean description: Set to true to retrieve the available values for sortKey. example: false default: false example: "false" - name: productFilter in: query description: The ID of the search query definition to filter products schema: type: string description: The ID of the search query definition to filter products example: sort_by_price example: sort_by_price - name: searchTerm in: query description: Search Term with wildcards schema: type: string description: Search Term with wildcards example: Asus example: Asus - name: attrs in: query description: "Allows to retrieve specific data for the product stubs.\n\n\ Separate multiple values with comma. Available values:\n\n- `productName`\n\ - `sku` (product ID)\n- `shortDescription` (minimal item description)\n\ - `manufacturer`\n- `image[@]` (URL to a product thumbnail image;\ \ @ is optional, if not provided type default is M)\n- `defaultCategory`\n\ - `listPrice` \n- `salePrice`\n- `productMaster` (true, if the product is\ \ a variation master)\n- `productMasterSKU` (the sku of the variation master\ \ if the current product is a variation product)\n- `mastered` (true, if\ \ the product is a variation product)\n- `averageRating` (average user evaluation\ \ score)\n- `roundedAverageRating` (rating)\n- `numberOfRatings`\n- `availability`\ \ (in stock status, according to the ICM)\n- `availableStock` (the quantity\ \ which is available for sale, according to the Inventory Service)\n- `inStock`\ \ (in stock status, according to the Inventory Service)\n- `timeToDelivery`\ \ (applicable shipping methods estimated delivery time in business days)\n\ - `minOrderQuantity`\n- `packingUnit` (unit in which the product is sold)\n\ - `promotions` (applicable promotions)\n- `retailSet`" schema: type: string description: "Allows to retrieve specific data for the product stubs.\n\n\ Separate multiple values with comma. Available values:\n\n- `productName`\n\ - `sku` (product ID)\n- `shortDescription` (minimal item description)\n\ - `manufacturer`\n- `image[@]` (URL to a product thumbnail image;\ \ @ is optional, if not provided type default is M)\n- `defaultCategory`\n\ - `listPrice` \n- `salePrice`\n- `productMaster` (true, if the product\ \ is a variation master)\n- `productMasterSKU` (the sku of the variation\ \ master if the current product is a variation product)\n- `mastered`\ \ (true, if the product is a variation product)\n- `averageRating` (average\ \ user evaluation score)\n- `roundedAverageRating` (rating)\n- `numberOfRatings`\n\ - `availability` (in stock status, according to the ICM)\n- `availableStock`\ \ (the quantity which is available for sale, according to the Inventory\ \ Service)\n- `inStock` (in stock status, according to the Inventory Service)\n\ - `timeToDelivery` (applicable shipping methods estimated delivery time\ \ in business days)\n- `minOrderQuantity`\n- `packingUnit` (unit in which\ \ the product is sold)\n- `promotions` (applicable promotions)\n- `retailSet`" example: "sku,listPrice,manufacturer" example: "sku,listPrice,manufacturer" - name: attributeGroup in: query description: |- Use the ID of an Product Attribute Group to retrieve all its attributes and values. Note that the Group needs to be flagged with "Available via REST" in ICM. Separate multiple values with comma. schema: type: string description: |- Use the ID of an Product Attribute Group to retrieve all its attributes and values. Note that the Group needs to be flagged with "Available via REST" in ICM. Separate multiple values with comma. example: ORDER_REQUIRED_ATTRIBUTES example: ORDER_REQUIRED_ATTRIBUTES - name: view in: query description: "ID of a custom view.\n\nIt is possible to define alternative\ \ views on the product stubs (i.e., which attributes which shall be returned,\ \ instead of listing them all individually in the `attrs` parameter.) This\ \ can be done in a WebshopREST.properties file on domain level.\n\nThe parameters\ \ `view` and `attrs` can be combined." schema: type: string description: "ID of a custom view.\n\nIt is possible to define alternative\ \ views on the product stubs (i.e., which attributes which shall be returned,\ \ instead of listing them all individually in the `attrs` parameter.)\ \ This can be done in a WebshopREST.properties file on domain level.\n\ \nThe parameters `view` and `attrs` can be combined." example: default default: default example: default responses: "200": description: OK - The list of products. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ProductLinkCollectionRO' text/xml: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ProductLinkCollectionRO' "400": description: Bad request - The query parameters are invalid. security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: "public com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resourceobject.ProductLinkCollectionRO\ \ com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductListResource.getProducts(java.lang.String,java.lang.Integer,java.lang.Integer,java.lang.String,java.lang.Boolean,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductListResource '{loc}{cur}/products{spgid}/{productKey}/links': get: tags: - Product summary: Returns product links of a product description: This operation returns all product links of a product. The links are grouped by type and contains both linked products and categories. operationId: getProductLinksGETProductLinks parameters: - $ref: '#/components/parameters/loc' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/cur' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/spgid' x-matrixParamPath: products - name: linkType in: query description: The type of links to retrieve schema: type: string description: The type of links to retrieve example: accessory example: accessory - name: targetObject in: query description: The target of the links to fetch schema: type: string description: The target of the links to fetch example: product enum: - product - category example: product - name: productKey in: path description: The product ID required: true schema: type: string description: The product ID example: "4841578" example: "4841578" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductListResource responses: "200": description: OK - The links for the given product. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/TypedLinksCollectionRO' text/xml: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/TypedLinksCollectionRO' "400": description: Bad request - The query parameters are invalid. "404": description: Not found - The product could not be found. security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: "public com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resourceobject.TypedLinkRO$TypedLinksCollectionRO\ \ com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductLinksResource.getProductLinks(java.lang.String,java.lang.String)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductLinksResource '{loc}{cur}/categories/{categoriesKey}/products{spgid}': get: tags: - Product summary: Returns products by search description: "This operation returns a list of products for a given search expression.\ \ The response contains product stubs which allow to render product lists\ \ efficiently.\n\n# Advanced Variation Handling\n\nThis resource can be filtered\ \ by search index attributes (if specified in the back office).\nHowever,\ \ if you filter specifically by MasterSKU, there is a slightly different behavior:\ \ When you pass this parameter, you will get all variations instead of just\ \ the default one.\n\nExample: ```/products?MasterSKU=M123``` will return\ \ all variations for the Product Master M123.\n\nNote: If no other sorting\ \ is specified, the sorting configured in the back office will be used for\ \ product variations." operationId: getProductsListResource_1 parameters: - $ref: '#/components/parameters/loc' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/cur' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/spgid' x-matrixParamPath: products - name: pageable in: query description: "Use for paging through long result lists.\n\nEach response contains\ \ a `pageable` attribute. Use this ID fur subsequent requests (e.g., to\ \ get the data for the next page) to ensure consistent data.\n" schema: type: string description: "Use for paging through long result lists.\n\nEach response\ \ contains a `pageable` attribute. Use this ID fur subsequent requests\ \ (e.g., to get the data for the next page) to ensure consistent data.\n" example: z_AKDgAFmPAAAAF3hRExUPze example: z_AKDgAFmPAAAAF3hRExUPze - name: offset in: query description: "Retrieve one specific set of results from a long list, like\ \ a page number.\n\nUse with `pageable` and `amount`." schema: type: integer description: "Retrieve one specific set of results from a long list, like\ \ a page number.\n\nUse with `pageable` and `amount`." format: int32 example: 2 default: 0 example: "2" - name: amount in: query description: Number of items to be returned. schema: type: integer description: Number of items to be returned. format: int32 example: 30 default: 50 example: "30" - name: sortKey in: query description: Define the sorting order of the products. Products can be sorted by name (name-asc or name-desc) or list price (value-asc or value-desc). schema: type: string description: Define the sorting order of the products. Products can be sorted by name (name-asc or name-desc) or list price (value-asc or value-desc). example: name-asc enum: - name-asc - name-desc - value-asc - value-desc example: name-asc - name: returnSortKeys in: query description: Set to true to retrieve the available values for sortKey. schema: type: boolean description: Set to true to retrieve the available values for sortKey. example: false default: false example: "false" - name: productFilter in: query description: The ID of the search query definition to filter products schema: type: string description: The ID of the search query definition to filter products example: sort_by_price example: sort_by_price - name: searchTerm in: query description: Search Term with wildcards schema: type: string description: Search Term with wildcards example: Asus example: Asus - name: attrs in: query description: "Allows to retrieve specific data for the product stubs.\n\n\ Separate multiple values with comma. Available values:\n\n- `productName`\n\ - `sku` (product ID)\n- `shortDescription` (minimal item description)\n\ - `manufacturer`\n- `image[@]` (URL to a product thumbnail image;\ \ @ is optional, if not provided type default is M)\n- `defaultCategory`\n\ - `listPrice` \n- `salePrice`\n- `productMaster` (true, if the product is\ \ a variation master)\n- `productMasterSKU` (the sku of the variation master\ \ if the current product is a variation product)\n- `mastered` (true, if\ \ the product is a variation product)\n- `averageRating` (average user evaluation\ \ score)\n- `roundedAverageRating` (rating)\n- `numberOfRatings`\n- `availability`\ \ (in stock status, according to the ICM)\n- `availableStock` (the quantity\ \ which is available for sale, according to the Inventory Service)\n- `inStock`\ \ (in stock status, according to the Inventory Service)\n- `timeToDelivery`\ \ (applicable shipping methods estimated delivery time in business days)\n\ - `minOrderQuantity`\n- `packingUnit` (unit in which the product is sold)\n\ - `promotions` (applicable promotions)\n- `retailSet`" schema: type: string description: "Allows to retrieve specific data for the product stubs.\n\n\ Separate multiple values with comma. Available values:\n\n- `productName`\n\ - `sku` (product ID)\n- `shortDescription` (minimal item description)\n\ - `manufacturer`\n- `image[@]` (URL to a product thumbnail image;\ \ @ is optional, if not provided type default is M)\n- `defaultCategory`\n\ - `listPrice` \n- `salePrice`\n- `productMaster` (true, if the product\ \ is a variation master)\n- `productMasterSKU` (the sku of the variation\ \ master if the current product is a variation product)\n- `mastered`\ \ (true, if the product is a variation product)\n- `averageRating` (average\ \ user evaluation score)\n- `roundedAverageRating` (rating)\n- `numberOfRatings`\n\ - `availability` (in stock status, according to the ICM)\n- `availableStock`\ \ (the quantity which is available for sale, according to the Inventory\ \ Service)\n- `inStock` (in stock status, according to the Inventory Service)\n\ - `timeToDelivery` (applicable shipping methods estimated delivery time\ \ in business days)\n- `minOrderQuantity`\n- `packingUnit` (unit in which\ \ the product is sold)\n- `promotions` (applicable promotions)\n- `retailSet`" example: "sku,listPrice,manufacturer" example: "sku,listPrice,manufacturer" - name: attributeGroup in: query description: |- Use the ID of an Product Attribute Group to retrieve all its attributes and values. Note that the Group needs to be flagged with "Available via REST" in ICM. Separate multiple values with comma. schema: type: string description: |- Use the ID of an Product Attribute Group to retrieve all its attributes and values. Note that the Group needs to be flagged with "Available via REST" in ICM. Separate multiple values with comma. example: ORDER_REQUIRED_ATTRIBUTES example: ORDER_REQUIRED_ATTRIBUTES - name: view in: query description: "ID of a custom view.\n\nIt is possible to define alternative\ \ views on the product stubs (i.e., which attributes which shall be returned,\ \ instead of listing them all individually in the `attrs` parameter.) This\ \ can be done in a WebshopREST.properties file on domain level.\n\nThe parameters\ \ `view` and `attrs` can be combined." schema: type: string description: "ID of a custom view.\n\nIt is possible to define alternative\ \ views on the product stubs (i.e., which attributes which shall be returned,\ \ instead of listing them all individually in the `attrs` parameter.)\ \ This can be done in a WebshopREST.properties file on domain level.\n\ \nThe parameters `view` and `attrs` can be combined." example: default default: default example: default - name: categoriesKey in: path description: The category path that includes the complete path from the catalog to the current category. required: true schema: type: string description: The category path that includes the complete path from the catalog to the current category. example: Computers/3001/222 example: Computers/3001/222 x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.category.CategoryListResource responses: "200": description: OK - The list of products. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ProductLinkCollectionRO' text/xml: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ProductLinkCollectionRO' "400": description: Bad request - The query parameters are invalid. security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: "public com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resourceobject.ProductLinkCollectionRO\ \ com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductListResource.getProducts(java.lang.String,java.lang.Integer,java.lang.Integer,java.lang.String,java.lang.Boolean,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductListResource '{loc}{cur}/products{spgid}/{productKey}/crosssells': get: tags: - Product summary: Returns product cross sells description: This operation returns a list of cross sells of a product. operationId: getProductCrossSellsGETcross parameters: - $ref: '#/components/parameters/loc' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/cur' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/spgid' x-matrixParamPath: products - name: productKey in: path description: The product ID required: true schema: type: string description: The product ID example: "4841578" example: "4841578" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductListResource responses: "200": description: OK - The cross sells of the given product. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceCollectionROLinkRO' text/xml: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceCollectionROLinkRO' "404": description: Not found - The product could not be found. security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: public com.intershop.component.rest.capi.resourceobject.ResourceCollectionRO com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductResource.getProductCrossSells() x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductResource '{loc}{cur}/categories/{categoriesKey}/products{spgid}/{productKey}/partOfRetailSet': get: tags: - Product summary: Returns products of retail set description: This operation returns a list of all products assigned to a retail set. operationId: getPartOfRetailSetGETRetailSet_1 parameters: - $ref: '#/components/parameters/loc' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/cur' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/spgid' x-matrixParamPath: products - name: pageable in: query description: "Use for paging through long result lists.\n\nEach response contains\ \ a `pageable` attribute. Use this ID fur subsequent requests (e.g., to\ \ get the data for the next page) to ensure consistent data.\n" schema: type: string description: "Use for paging through long result lists.\n\nEach response\ \ contains a `pageable` attribute. Use this ID fur subsequent requests\ \ (e.g., to get the data for the next page) to ensure consistent data.\n" example: z_AKDgAFmPAAAAF3hRExUPze example: z_AKDgAFmPAAAAF3hRExUPze - name: offset in: query description: "Retrieve one specific set of results from a long list, like\ \ a page number.\n\nUse with `pageable` and `amount`." schema: type: integer description: "Retrieve one specific set of results from a long list, like\ \ a page number.\n\nUse with `pageable` and `amount`." format: int32 example: 2 default: 0 example: "2" - name: amount in: query description: Number of items to be returned. schema: type: integer description: Number of items to be returned. format: int32 example: 30 default: 50 example: "30" - name: categoriesKey in: path description: The category path that includes the complete path from the catalog to the current category. required: true schema: type: string description: The category path that includes the complete path from the catalog to the current category. example: Computers/3001/222 example: Computers/3001/222 x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.category.CategoryListResource - name: productKey in: path description: The product ID required: true schema: type: string description: The product ID example: "4841578" example: "4841578" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductListResource responses: "200": description: OK - The products assigned to the retail set. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceCollectionROLinkRO' text/xml: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceCollectionROLinkRO' "404": description: Not found - The product could not be found. security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: "public com.intershop.component.rest.capi.resourceobject.ResourceCollectionRO\ \ com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductResource.getPartOfRetailSet(java.lang.String,java.lang.Integer,java.lang.Integer)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductResource '{loc}{cur}/categories/{categoriesKey}/products{spgid}/{productKey}/categories': get: tags: - Product - Categories summary: Returns categories of a product description: This operation returns a list of all categories to which the product is explicitly or dynamically assigned. operationId: getCategoriesResource_1 parameters: - $ref: '#/components/parameters/loc' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/cur' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/spgid' x-matrixParamPath: products - name: categoriesKey in: path description: The category path that includes the complete path from the catalog to the current category. required: true schema: type: string description: The category path that includes the complete path from the catalog to the current category. example: Computers/3001/222 example: Computers/3001/222 x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.category.CategoryListResource - name: productKey in: path description: The product ID required: true schema: type: string description: The product ID example: "4841578" example: "4841578" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductListResource responses: "200": description: OK - The categories of the given product. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceCollectionROLinkRO' text/xml: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceCollectionROLinkRO' "404": description: Not found - The product could not be found. security: - bearerAuth: [] - basicAuth: [] - authToken: [] x-origin-method: public com.intershop.component.rest.capi.resourceobject.ResourceCollectionRO com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductResource.getCategories() x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductResource components: schemas: LinkRO: title: Link type: object properties: name: type: string description: the name of the returned element xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: "This is a constant: **Link**" readOnly: true example: Link xml: attribute: true attributes: type: array description: the list of attributes xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute' uri: type: string description: The uri relation: type: string description: The relation of the link externalDocs: description: Link Relations (www.iana.org) url: http://www.iana.org/assignments/link-relations/link-relations.xml enum: - about - alternate - appendix - archives - author - bookmark - canonical - chapter - collection - contents - copyright - create-form - current - describedby - describes - disclosure - duplicate - edit - edit-form - edit-media - enclosure - first - glossary - help - hosts - hub - icon - index - item - last - latest-version - license - lrdd - monitor - monitor-group - next - next-archive - nofollow - noreferrer - payment - predecessor-version - prefetch - prev - preview - previous - prev-archive - privacy-policy - profile - related - replies - search - section - self - service - start - stylesheet - subsection - successor-version - tag - terms-of-service - type - up - version-history - via - working-copy - working-copy-of title: type: string description: The title of the link description: type: string description: The description of the link itemId: type: string description: the Id of the linked item attribute: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute' description: A Link pointing to a resource xml: name: Link ProductLinkCollectionRO: type: object properties: pageable: type: string description: The pageable ID total: type: integer description: The pageable amount total format: int32 offset: type: integer description: The pageable offset format: int32 amount: type: integer description: The pageable amount format: int32 elements: type: array description: The list of elements xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/LinkRO' type: type: string description: 'The type of the object. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate objects by their type. ' xml: attribute: true sortKeys: uniqueItems: true type: array description: The keys to sort for xml: wrapped: true items: type: string description: the keys to sort for xml: name: sortKey sortableAttributes: type: object additionalProperties: $ref: '#/components/schemas/SortableAttributeRO' description: The sortable attributes for this search result. name: type: string description: The name of an element. xml: attribute: true xml: name: ProductLinkCollection ResourceAttribute: title: Attribute type: object properties: name: type: string description: The attribute's name xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: "This is a constant: **ResourceAttribute**" example: ResourceAttribute xml: attribute: true value: type: object description: The attribute's value. description: An attribute xml: name: ResourceAttribute SortableAttributeRO: type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element. xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the object. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate objects by their type. ' readOnly: true xml: attribute: true displayName: type: string description: The display name of the sortable attribute direction: type: string description: The direction of the sortable attribute enum: - asc - desc description: The sortable attributes for this search result. xml: name: SortableAttribute AbstractResourceObject: title: Object type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element. xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the object. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate objects by their type. ' readOnly: true xml: attribute: true description: the list of elements ResourceCollectionRO: type: object properties: pageable: type: string description: The pageable ID total: type: integer description: The pageable amount total format: int32 offset: type: integer description: The pageable offset format: int32 amount: type: integer description: The pageable amount format: int32 elements: type: array description: The list of elements xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/AbstractResourceObject' type: type: string description: 'The type of the object. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate objects by their type. ' xml: attribute: true sortKeys: uniqueItems: true type: array description: The keys to sort for xml: wrapped: true items: type: string description: the keys to sort for xml: name: sortKey name: type: string description: The name of an element. xml: attribute: true description: A list of ResourceObjects xml: name: ResourceCollection ResourceCollectionROLinkRO: title: Link List type: object properties: pageable: type: string description: the pageable ID total: type: integer description: the pageable amount total format: int32 offset: type: integer description: the pageable offset format: int32 amount: type: integer description: the pageable amount format: int32 elements: type: array description: the list of elements xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/LinkRO' type: type: string description: "This is a constant: **ResourceCollection**" example: ResourceCollection xml: attribute: true sortKeys: uniqueItems: true type: array description: the keys to sort for xml: wrapped: true items: type: string description: the keys to sort for xml: name: sortKey name: type: string description: the name of the returned element xml: attribute: true description: A list of links xml: name: ResourceCollection AttachmentAttributeROObject: type: object properties: type: type: string description: 'The type of the object. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate objects by their type. ' enum: - Boolean - Date - Decimal - Double - Integer - Long - Money - Quantity - String - Text - MultipleBoolean - MultipleDate - MultipleDecimal - MultipleDouble - MultipleInteger - MultipleLong - MultipleString name: type: string description: The name of an element. value: type: object AttachmentRO: type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element. xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the object. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate objects by their type. ' readOnly: true xml: attribute: true key: type: string value: type: string description: type: string uri: type: boolean link: $ref: '#/components/schemas/LinkRO' xml: name: Attachment AttributeGroupRO: type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element. xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the object. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate objects by their type. ' readOnly: true xml: attribute: true attributes: type: array description: the list of attributes xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute' displayName: type: string attributeGroups: type: object additionalProperties: $ref: '#/components/schemas/AttributeGroupRO' description: "the map of AttributeGroupROs defined by the goup, with their\ \ ids as keys" attribute: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute' CategoryPathRO: type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element. xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the object. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate objects by their type. ' readOnly: true xml: attribute: true attributes: type: array description: the list of attributes xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute' id: type: string uri: type: string attribute: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute' xml: name: CategoryPath DefaultCategoryRO: type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element. xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the object. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate objects by their type. ' readOnly: true xml: attribute: true attributes: type: array description: the list of attributes xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute' id: type: string categoryPath: type: array items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/CategoryPathRO' uri: type: string attribute: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute' xml: name: DefaultCategory ImageRO: type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element. xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the object. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate objects by their type. ' example: Image xml: attribute: true attributes: type: array description: the list of attributes xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute' effectiveUrl: type: string description: the effective URL of the image example: /INTERSHOP/static/WFS/PrimeTech-PrimeTechSpecials-Site/b2c-web-shop/PrimeTech/en_US/1XL/350617-1238.jpg viewID: type: string description: the view id of the image example: front typeID: type: string description: the type id of the image example: 1XL actualHeight: type: integer format: int32 actualWidth: type: integer format: int32 imageActualHeight: type: integer description: the actual height of the image format: int32 example: 220 imageActualWidth: type: integer description: the actual width of the image format: int32 example: 220 primaryImage: type: boolean description: indicates if this image is the primary image attribute: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute' xml: name: Image MetadataRO: type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element. xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the object. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate objects by their type. ' readOnly: true xml: attribute: true attributes: type: array description: the list of attributes xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute' colorCode: type: string imagePath: type: string attribute: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute' xml: name: MetaData ProductPriceRO: type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element. xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the object. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate objects by their type. ' readOnly: true xml: attribute: true locale: type: object properties: language: type: string script: type: string country: type: string variant: type: string extensionKeys: uniqueItems: true type: array items: type: string unicodeLocaleAttributes: uniqueItems: true type: array items: type: string unicodeLocaleKeys: uniqueItems: true type: array items: type: string iso3Language: type: string iso3Country: type: string displayLanguage: type: string displayScript: type: string displayCountry: type: string displayVariant: type: string displayName: type: string writeOnly: true value: type: number currencyMnemonic: type: string priceText: type: string currency: type: string xml: name: ProductPrice ProductRO: title: ProductRO type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element. xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the object. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate objects by their type. ' readOnly: true xml: attribute: true attributes: type: array description: the list of attributes xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute' sku: type: string productName: type: string shortDescription: type: string longDescription: type: string productTypes: type: array items: type: string availability: type: boolean retailSet: type: boolean inStock: type: boolean availableStock: type: number productMaster: type: boolean productMasterSKU: type: string mastered: type: boolean roundedAverageRating: type: string averageRating: type: string readyForShipmentMin: type: integer format: int32 readyForShipmentMax: type: integer format: int32 minOrderQuantity: type: number productBundle: type: boolean manufacturer: type: string listPrice: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ProductPriceRO' salePrice: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ProductPriceRO' minListPrice: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ProductPriceRO' maxListPrice: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ProductPriceRO' minSalePrice: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ProductPriceRO' maxSalePrice: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ProductPriceRO' summedUpListPrice: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ProductPriceRO' summedUpSalePrice: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ProductPriceRO' endOfLife: type: integer format: int64 lastOrderDate: type: integer format: int64 maxOrderQuantity: type: number stepOrderQuantity: type: number packingUnit: type: string price: type: string currencyCode: type: string variations: type: string crosssells: type: string bundles: type: string partOfRetailSet: type: string reviews: type: string shippingMethods: uniqueItems: true type: array xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ShippingMethodRO' availableWarranties: type: array xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/LinkRO' availableGiftWraps: type: array xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/LinkRO' availableGiftMessages: type: array xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/LinkRO' images: type: array xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ImageRO' defaultCategory: $ref: '#/components/schemas/DefaultCategoryRO' attributeGroups: type: object additionalProperties: $ref: '#/components/schemas/AttributeGroupRO' attachments: type: array xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/AttachmentRO' additionalAttributes: type: array xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute' variationAttributeValues: type: array xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/VariationAttributeRO' variationAttributeValuesExtended: type: array xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/VariationAttributeExtendedRO' variableVariationAttributes: type: array xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/VariationAttributeRO' timeToDelivery: type: array xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ProductShippingMethodDeliveryRO' promotions: type: array xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/LinkRO' seoAttributes: $ref: '#/components/schemas/SEOMetaAttributes' numberOfReviews: type: integer format: int32 supplierSKU: type: string attribute: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute' description: This resource represents a sellable entity that is offered to a customer. xml: name: Product ProductShippingMethodDeliveryRO: type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element. xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the object. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate objects by their type. ' readOnly: true xml: attribute: true timeToDeliveryMin: type: integer format: int32 timeToDeliveryMax: type: integer format: int32 shippingMethodId: type: string shippingMethodName: type: string xml: name: ProductShippingMethodDelivery SEOMetaAttributes: type: object properties: metaTitle: type: string metaDescription: type: string robots: type: array items: type: string xml: name: SEOAttributes ShippingMethodRO: title: ShippingMethodRO type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element. xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the object. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate objects by their type. ' example: ShippingMethod xml: attribute: true id: type: string description: the id of the returned element example: STD_GROUND shippingTimeMin: type: integer description: The minimum shipping time in days format: int32 example: 3 shippingTimeMax: type: integer description: The maximum shipping time in days format: int32 example: 7 description: This resource describes a shipping method that can be selected as delivery option. xml: name: ShippingMethod VariationAttributeExtendedRO: type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element. xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the object. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate objects by their type. ' readOnly: true xml: attribute: true attributes: type: array description: the list of attributes xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute' variationAttributeId: type: string value: $ref: '#/components/schemas/AttachmentAttributeROObject' values: type: array items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/VariationAttributeValueRO' attributeType: type: string metadata: $ref: '#/components/schemas/MetadataRO' attribute: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute' xml: name: VariationAttribute VariationAttributeRO: type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element. xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the object. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate objects by their type. ' readOnly: true xml: attribute: true attributes: type: array description: the list of attributes xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute' value: type: string variationAttributeId: type: string attribute: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute' xml: name: VariationAttribute VariationAttributeValueRO: type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element. xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the object. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate objects by their type. ' readOnly: true xml: attribute: true attributes: type: array description: the list of attributes xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute' value: $ref: '#/components/schemas/AttachmentAttributeROObject' metadata: $ref: '#/components/schemas/MetadataRO' attribute: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute' xml: name: VariationAttributeValues TypedLinkRO: type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element. xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the object. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate objects by their type. ' readOnly: true xml: attribute: true linkType: type: string categoryLinks: type: array xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/LinkRO' productLinks: type: array xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/LinkRO' description: the list of elements xml: name: TypedLink TypedLinksCollectionRO: type: object properties: pageable: type: string description: The pageable ID total: type: integer description: The pageable amount total format: int32 offset: type: integer description: The pageable offset format: int32 amount: type: integer description: The pageable amount format: int32 elements: type: array description: The list of elements xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/TypedLinkRO' type: type: string description: 'The type of the object. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate objects by their type. ' xml: attribute: true sortKeys: uniqueItems: true type: array description: The keys to sort for xml: wrapped: true items: type: string description: the keys to sort for xml: name: sortKey name: type: string description: The name of an element. xml: attribute: true xml: name: TypedLinks VariationCollectionRO: type: object properties: pageable: type: string description: The pageable ID total: type: integer description: The pageable amount total format: int32 offset: type: integer description: The pageable offset format: int32 amount: type: integer description: The pageable amount format: int32 elements: type: array description: The list of elements xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/VariationLinkRO' type: type: string description: 'The type of the object. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate objects by their type. ' xml: attribute: true sortKeys: uniqueItems: true type: array description: The keys to sort for xml: wrapped: true items: type: string description: the keys to sort for xml: name: sortKey name: type: string description: The name of an element. xml: attribute: true xml: name: Variations VariationLinkRO: type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element. xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the object. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate objects by their type. ' readOnly: true xml: attribute: true attributes: type: array description: the list of attributes xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute' uri: type: string relation: type: string enum: - about - alternate - appendix - archives - author - bookmark - canonical - chapter - collection - contents - copyright - create-form - current - describedby - describes - disclosure - duplicate - edit - edit-form - edit-media - enclosure - first - glossary - help - hosts - hub - icon - index - item - last - latest-version - license - lrdd - monitor - monitor-group - next - next-archive - nofollow - noreferrer - payment - predecessor-version - prefetch - prev - preview - previous - prev-archive - privacy-policy - profile - related - replies - search - section - self - service - start - stylesheet - subsection - successor-version - tag - terms-of-service - type - up - version-history - via - working-copy - working-copy-of title: type: string description: type: string itemId: type: string variableVariationAttributeValues: type: array xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/VariationAttributeRO' variableVariationAttributeValuesExtended: type: array xml: name: variableVariationAttributeValues wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/VariationAttributeExtendedRO' attribute: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute' description: the list of elements xml: name: VariationLink ProductSearchAttributesRO: type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element. xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the object. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate objects by their type. ' readOnly: true xml: attribute: true attributes: type: array description: the list of attributes xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute' masterProductSKU: type: string prioritySearchAttribute: type: string searchAttributes: type: object additionalProperties: type: string attribute: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute' xml: name: ProductSearchAttributes CategoryCollectionRO: type: object properties: pageable: type: string description: The pageable ID total: type: integer description: The pageable amount total format: int32 offset: type: integer description: The pageable offset format: int32 amount: type: integer description: The pageable amount format: int32 elements: type: array description: The list of elements xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/CategoryRO' type: type: string description: 'The type of the object. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate objects by their type. ' xml: attribute: true sortKeys: uniqueItems: true type: array description: The keys to sort for xml: wrapped: true items: type: string description: the keys to sort for xml: name: sortKey name: type: string description: The name of an element. xml: attribute: true xml: name: Categories CategoryRO: type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element. xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the object. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate objects by their type. ' example: Category xml: attribute: true attributes: type: array description: the list of attributes xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute' hasOnlineProducts: type: boolean description: indicates if this (sub)-category has online products hasOnlineSubCategories: type: boolean description: indicates if this (sub)-category has online sub categories onlineProductsCountInSubCategories: type: integer format: int32 products: type: string description: the products in this (sub)-category online: type: string description: the online of this (sub)-category example: "1" description: type: string description: the description of this (sub)-category example: The Vectra products and services catalog. richContent: type: string description: "The content for the category page, maintained in the 'Content'\ \ field at the category in Intershop Commerce Management." subCategoriesCount: type: integer description: the count of sub categories format: int32 example: 1 image: $ref: '#/components/schemas/LinkRO' images: type: array description: the images of this (sub)-category xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ImageRO' categoryPath: type: array xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/CategoryPathRO' thumbnail: $ref: '#/components/schemas/LinkRO' id: type: string description: the id of this (sub)-category example: Cameras-Camcorders categoryRef: type: string description: the categoryRef of this (sub)-category example: 832@inSPIRED-inTRONICS-Cameras-Camcorders subCategories: type: array description: List of subcategories of this (sub)-category xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/AbstractResourceObject' uri: type: string description: the uri of this (sub)-category example: PrimeTech-PrimeTechSpecials-Site/b2c-web-shop/categories/Cameras-Camcorders/1290 productList: type: array description: List of products in this (sub)-category as List of LinkROs items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/LinkRO' seoAttributes: $ref: '#/components/schemas/SEOMetaAttributes' attribute: $ref: '#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute' xml: name: Category ResourceCollectionROTypedLinkRO: type: object properties: pageable: type: string description: The pageable ID total: type: integer description: The pageable amount total format: int32 offset: type: integer description: The pageable offset format: int32 amount: type: integer description: The pageable amount format: int32 elements: type: array description: The list of elements xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/TypedLinkRO' type: type: string description: 'The type of the object. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate objects by their type. ' xml: attribute: true sortKeys: uniqueItems: true type: array description: The keys to sort for xml: wrapped: true items: type: string description: the keys to sort for xml: name: sortKey name: type: string description: The name of an element. xml: attribute: true description: A list of ResourceObjects xml: name: ResourceCollection FilterEntryRO: type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element. xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the object. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate objects by their type. ' readOnly: true xml: attribute: true count: type: integer format: int32 value: type: string mappedType: type: string mappedValue: type: string level: type: integer format: int32 searchParameter: type: string displayValue: type: string link: $ref: '#/components/schemas/LinkRO' hits: $ref: '#/components/schemas/LinkRO' selected: type: boolean description: Filter Entries example: Object of type FilterEntryRO FilterRO: type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element. example: Taxonomic Filter xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the object. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate objects by their type. ' example: Filter xml: attribute: true id: type: string description: ID of filter example: CategoryUUIDLevelMulti filterEntries: type: array description: Filter Entries example: Object of type FilterEntryRO items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/FilterEntryRO' displayType: type: string description: Display type example: text_clear selectionType: type: string description: Selection type example: taxonomic limitCount: type: integer description: Limit count format: int32 example: -1 minCount: type: integer description: Minimum count format: int32 example: 1 links: type: object additionalProperties: $ref: '#/components/schemas/LinkRO' scope: type: string description: Scope of filter example: Global description: Represents a filter ResourceCollectionROFilterRO: type: object properties: pageable: type: string description: The pageable ID total: type: integer description: The pageable amount total format: int32 offset: type: integer description: The pageable offset format: int32 amount: type: integer description: The pageable amount format: int32 elements: type: array description: The list of elements xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/FilterRO' type: type: string description: 'The type of the object. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate objects by their type. ' xml: attribute: true sortKeys: uniqueItems: true type: array description: The keys to sort for xml: wrapped: true items: type: string description: the keys to sort for xml: name: sortKey name: type: string description: The name of an element. xml: attribute: true description: A list of ResourceObjects xml: name: ResourceCollection responses: "200": description: OK "201": description: Created "202": description: Accepted "204": description: No Content "205": description: Reset Content "206": description: Partial Content "301": description: Moved Permanently "302": description: Found "303": description: See Other "304": description: Not Modified "305": description: Use Proxy "307": description: Temporary Redirect "400": description: Bad Request "401": description: Unauthorized "402": description: Payment Required "403": description: Forbidden "404": description: Not Found "405": description: Method Not Allowed "406": description: Not Acceptable "407": description: Proxy Authentication Required "408": description: Request Timeout "409": description: Conflict "410": description: Gone "411": description: Length Required "412": description: Precondition Failed "413": description: Request Entity Too Large "414": description: Request-URI Too Long "415": description: Unsupported Media Type "416": description: Requested Range Not Satisfiable "417": description: Expectation Failed "428": description: Precondition Required "429": description: Too Many Requests "431": description: Request Header Fields Too Large "500": description: Internal Server Error "501": description: Not Implemented "502": description: Bad Gateway "503": description: Service Unavailable "504": description: Gateway Timeout "505": description: HTTP Version Not Supported "511": description: Network Authentication Required parameters: loc: name: loc in: path description: "The locale ID (submitted as optional matrix parameter ```;loc=```).\ \ If omitted, the site's or user's default locale is used." required: false style: matrix schema: type: string description: "The locale ID (submitted as optional matrix parameter ```;loc=```).\ \ If omitted, the site's or user's default locale is used." default: en_US examples: en_US: description: English (United States) value: en_US fr_FR: description: French (France) value: fr_FR de_DE: description: German (Germany) value: de_DE x-matrixParamPath: / cur: name: cur in: path description: "The currency code (submitted as optional matrix parameter ```;cur=```).\ \ If omitted, the site's or user's default currency is used." required: false style: matrix schema: type: string description: "The currency code (submitted as optional matrix parameter ```;cur=```).\ \ If omitted, the site's or user's default currency is used." default: USD examples: FJD: description: Fiji Dollar value: FJD STD: description: São Tomé / Príncipe Dobra value: STD MXN: description: Mexican Peso value: MXN SCR: description: Seychelles Rupee value: SCR LVL: description: Latvian Lats value: LVL CDF: description: Congolese Franc value: CDF GTQ: description: Guatemalan Quetzal value: GTQ BBD: description: Barbados Dollar value: BBD CLP: description: Chilean Peso value: CLP UGX: description: Ugandan Shilling value: UGX HNL: description: Honduran Lempira value: HNL ZAR: description: South African Rand value: ZAR TND: description: Tunisian Dinar value: TND SLL: description: Sierra Leonean Leone value: SLL BSD: description: Bahamian Dollar value: BSD SDG: description: Sudanese Pound value: SDG IQD: description: Iraqi Dinar value: IQD GMD: description: Gambian Dalasi value: GMD CUP: description: Cuban Peso value: CUP TWD: description: New Taiwan Dollar value: TWD RSD: description: Serbian Dinar value: RSD ZRZ: description: Zaire value: ZRZ DOP: description: Dominican Peso value: DOP KMF: description: Comoro Franc value: KMF MYR: description: Malaysian Ringgit value: MYR FKP: description: Falkland Islands Pound value: FKP XOF: description: CFA Franc BCEAO value: XOF GEL: description: Lari value: GEL UYU: description: Uruguayan Peso value: UYU MAD: description: Moroccan Dirham value: MAD CVE: description: Cape Verde Escudo value: CVE TOP: description: Tongan Pa'anga value: TOP PGK: description: Papua New Guinean Kina value: PGK OMR: description: Omani Rial value: OMR AZN: description: Azerbaijanian Manat value: AZN SEK: description: Swedish Krona value: SEK KES: description: Kenyan Shilling value: KES UAH: description: Ukrainian Hryvnia value: UAH BTN: description: Ngultrum value: BTN GNF: description: Guinea Franc value: GNF MZN: description: Mozambican Metical value: MZN ERN: description: Nakfa value: ERN SVC: description: Salvadoran Colón value: SVC ARS: description: Argentine Peso value: ARS QAR: description: Qatari Riyal value: QAR NLG: description: Dutch Guilder value: NLG IRR: description: Iranian Rial value: IRR MRO: description: Mauritanian Ouguiya value: MRO XPF: description: CFP Franc value: XPF UZS: description: Uzbekistani Som value: UZS THB: description: Thai Baht value: THB CNY: description: Yuan Renminbi value: CNY BDT: description: Bangladeshi Taka value: BDT LYD: description: Libyan Dinar value: LYD BMD: description: Bermudian Dollar value: BMD PHP: description: Philippine Peso value: PHP KWD: description: Kuwaiti Dinar value: KWD RUB: description: Russian Ruble value: RUB PYG: description: Paraguayan Guarani value: PYG JMD: description: Jamaican Dollar value: JMD ISK: description: Iceland Krona value: ISK GWP: description: Guinea Peso value: GWP BEF: description: Belgian Franc value: BEF ESP: description: Spanish Peseta value: ESP COP: description: Colombian Peso value: COP USD: description: US Dollar value: USD MKD: description: Denar value: MKD DZD: description: Algerian Dinar value: DZD PAB: description: Panamanian Balboa value: PAB SGD: description: Singapore Dollar value: SGD ETB: description: Ethiopian Birr value: ETB VUV: description: Vanuatu Vatu value: VUV VEF: description: Venezuelan Bolivar Fuerte value: VEF SOS: description: Somali Shilling value: SOS KGS: description: Som value: KGS LAK: description: Lao Kip value: LAK ZMK: description: Zambian Kwacha value: ZMK BND: description: Brunei Dollar value: BND XAF: description: CFA Franc BEAC value: XAF LRD: description: Liberian Dollar value: LRD ITL: description: Italian Lira value: ITL HRK: description: Croatian Kuna value: HRK CHF: description: Swiss Franc value: CHF ATS: description: Austrian Schilling value: ATS DJF: description: Djibouti Franc value: DJF ALL: description: Albanian Lek value: ALL MTL: description: Maltese Lira value: MTL TZS: description: Tanzanian Shilling value: TZS VND: description: Vietnamese Dong value: VND AUD: description: Australian Dollar value: AUD ILS: description: New Israeli Sheqel value: ILS KPW: description: North Korean Won value: KPW GYD: description: Guyanese Dollar value: GYD GHS: description: Ghanaian Cedi value: GHS MDL: description: Moldovan Leu value: MDL KHR: description: Cambodian Riel value: KHR BOB: description: Boliviano value: BOB IDR: description: Indonesian Rupiah value: IDR KYD: description: Cayman Islands Dollar value: KYD AMD: description: Armenian Dram value: AMD TRY: description: Turkish Lira value: TRY SHP: description: Saint Helena Pound value: SHP BWP: description: Botswana Pula value: BWP LBP: description: Lebanese Pound value: LBP CYP: description: Cyprus Pound value: CYP TJS: description: Tajikistani Somoni value: TJS JOD: description: Jordanian Dinar value: JOD RWF: description: Rwanda Franc value: RWF HKD: description: Hong Kong Dollar value: HKD AED: description: United Arab Emirates Dirham value: AED EUR: description: Euro value: EUR LSL: description: Lesotho Loti value: LSL DKK: description: Danish Krone value: DKK CAD: description: Canadian Dollar value: CAD BGN: description: Bulgarian Lev value: BGN MMK: description: Kyat value: MMK EEK: description: Estonian Kroon value: EEK SYP: description: Syrian Pound value: SYP NOK: description: Norwegian Krone value: NOK MUR: description: Mauritian Rupee value: MUR ZWL: description: Zimbabwean Dollar value: ZWL GIP: description: Gibraltar Pound value: GIP RON: description: Romanian New Leu value: RON LKR: description: Sri Lankan Rupee value: LKR NGN: description: Nigerian Naira value: NGN IEP: description: Irish Pound value: IEP CZK: description: Czech Koruna value: CZK CRC: description: Costa Rican Colon value: CRC PKR: description: Pakistani Rupee value: PKR XCD: description: East Carribean Dollar value: XCD GRD: description: Greek Drachma value: GRD HTG: description: Haitian Gourde value: HTG ANG: description: Netherlands Antillian Guilder value: ANG SIT: description: Slovenian Tolar value: SIT BHD: description: Bahraini Dinar value: BHD PTE: description: Portuguese Escudo value: PTE BPP: description: Bonus Point Price value: BPP SZL: description: Swazi Lilangeni value: SZL SRD: description: Surinam Dollar value: SRD KZT: description: Kazakhstani Tenge value: KZT TTD: description: Trinidad and Tobago Dollar value: TTD SAR: description: Saudi Riyal value: SAR LTL: description: Lithuanian Litas value: LTL YER: description: Yemeni Rial value: YER MVR: description: Maldivian Rufiyaa value: MVR BPV: description: Bonus Point Value value: BPV AFN: description: Afghani value: AFN INR: description: Indian Rupee value: INR NPR: description: Nepalese Rupee value: NPR KRW: description: South Korean Won value: KRW AWG: description: Aruban Florin value: AWG MNT: description: Mongolian Tugrik value: MNT JPY: description: Japanese Yen value: JPY PLN: description: Polish Złoty value: PLN AOA: description: Angolan Kwanza value: AOA SBD: description: Solomon Islands Dollar value: SBD GBP: description: Pound Sterling value: GBP HUF: description: Hungarian Forint value: HUF BYR: description: Belarussian Ruble value: BYR LUF: description: Luxembourgian Franc value: LUF BIF: description: Burundi Franc value: BIF MWK: description: Malawian Kwacha value: MWK MGA: description: Malagasy Ariary value: MGA FIM: description: Finnish Mark value: FIM DEM: description: Deutsche Mark value: DEM BZD: description: Belize Dollar value: BZD BAM: description: Convertible Marks value: BAM MOP: description: Macanese Pataca value: MOP EGP: description: Egyptian Pound value: EGP NAD: description: Namibian Dollar value: NAD SKK: description: Slovakian Krona value: SKK NIO: description: Cordoba Oro value: NIO PEN: description: Peruvian Nuevo Sol value: PEN WST: description: Samoan Tala value: WST NZD: description: New Zealand Dollar value: NZD TMT: description: Turkmenistani Manat value: TMT FRF: description: French Franc value: FRF BRL: description: Brazilian Real value: BRL x-matrixParamPath: / regionals: name: regionals in: path required: false style: matrix schema: type: object properties: loc: type: string description: The locale ID example: en_US cur: type: string description: The currency code example: EUR x-matrixParamPath: / pgid: name: pgid in: path description: "The personalization group identifier, submitted as matrix parameter\ \ ```;pgid=```" required: false style: matrix schema: type: string description: "The personalization group identifier, submitted as matrix parameter\ \ ```;pgid=```" example: FUOGrzQ_VjORpGaN8DRGmLLE0000 example: FUOGrzQ_VjORpGaN8DRGmLLE0000 spgid: name: spgid in: path description: "The secure personalization group identifier, submitted as matrix\ \ parameter ```;spgid=```" required: false style: matrix schema: type: string description: "The secure personalization group identifier, submitted as matrix\ \ parameter ```;spgid=```" example: FUOGrzQ_VjORpGaN8DRGmLLE0000 example: FUOGrzQ_VjORpGaN8DRGmLLE0000 securitySchemes: basicAuth: type: http description: "Basic access authentication. In basic authentication, a request\ \ contains a header field in the form of authorization: ```Basic ```,\ \ where credentials is the Base64 encoding of ID and password joined by a\ \ single colon :." scheme: basic authToken: type: apiKey description: User authentication token to authenticate the request. The token is a string generated by the ICM server in the same header in every response of an REST endpoint. name: authentication-token in: header bearerAuth: type: http description: "Bearer token authentication. A request contains a header field\ \ in the form of authorization: ```Bearer ```, where is a string\ \ generated by an authentication service in response to a login request." scheme: bearer bearerFormat: JWT x-apiID: product x-origin-class: "com.intershop.component.rest.capi.resource.RootResource,com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductFiltersResource,com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductFiltersResource,com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductFiltersResource,com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.ProductFiltersResource"