---
id: 'a61db0e6175fac535b5bc9c81f123f48'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2873L0'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:07.887107+00:00'
---
Intershop Commerce Management 7.10 supports MS-SQL as additional data base type besides oracle. This guide documents the resulting changes in deployment.

The database section within the *settings.gradle* must be adapted. So the two attributes `databaseType`

and `jdbcUrl`

are added to the section. Further details about the deploying ICM 7.10 can be found here: [Cookbook - Deployment Tools ICM 7.10](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1848547085/Cookbook+-+Deployment+Tools+ICM+7.10)

database { ... + databaseType = 'oracle|mssql' + jdbcUrl = '<FILL IN>' ... }

The desired data base can be selected: Either `oracle`

or `mssql`

written in small letters.

The selection of the database type does not select or deselect the database driver (jars, cartridges). Both kinds of databases are supported by the application server. Only the configuration is adapted by this.

The JDBC connection URL depends on the data base type.

jdbcUrl = 'jdbc:sqlserver://<HOST>:<PORT>;databaseName=<DBSCHEMA_NAME>'

jdbcUrl = 'jdbc:oracle:thin:@<HOST>:<PORT>:<SID>'

jdbcUrl = 'jdbc:oracle:thin:@//<HOST>:<PORT>/<SERVICE_NAME>'

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.