---
id: 'a6ab7411925d29f8787e8c801269d68e'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2E3277'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:51.023813+00:00'
---
This document describes the `Tracking Framework`

feature of Intershop Commerce Management.

The work of web analytics engines like *WebTrends*, *Omniture*, *Google Analytics* can be divided into three major parts:

It is nearly the same for recommendation engines like *Prudsys*, *Avail*, which mostly do the same three things:

The `Tracking Framework`

defines events that can be triggered, provides components to pipeline developers, and offers interfaces and managers for *web analytics engines* or *recommendation engines* respectively.

The pipeline developer adds `Tracking Framework`

specific pipelets to pipelines, so that events are triggered. An event is an object that is passed to the tracking manager ( `TrackingMgr`

) by the pipelet. The `TrackingMgr`

is the bridge between the events and the registered handlers.

The picture above shows how the parts work together. The Fire...Event pipelets (these are `Tracking Framework`

specific pipelets, e.g. `FireUerLoginEvent`

), build up the event objects based on its input parameters and call the `TrackingMgr`

with the event.

The `TrackingMgr`

looks into its dictionary to see which `TrackingEventHandler`

s are registered for the certain event and calls them one after another. With the help of the Component FW the event handler will be registered on the corresponding tracking service definition. The service definitions are registered on the service definition registry (See [Service Definition Registry](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1759446169/Concept+-+Managed+Service+Framework#Concept-ManagedServiceFramework-ServiceDefinitionRegistry)for details).

Events can be basically *any* `Object`

, though it should be considered as a non-persistent POJO. The framework is supertyping-aware. That means, if a sub-type event occurs, but a handler is registered for super-type events, it is still triggered for that event.

Example

The image above shows how the call structure is built up. The core functionality is enclosed in `TrackingMgr`

.

Basically, we consider there is an event called B which is a sub-type of A. At the `TrackingMgr`

, `TrackingEventHandler`

s are registered: Handler X, Handler Y, and Handler Z.

`Object`

).Now we consider there is a corresponding pipelet called FireBEvent. What happens if it calls the `TrackingMgr`

with a **B** event?

`TrackingMgr`

finds Handler Z registered for B events, so it calls Handler Z with B.`TrackingMgr`

finds Handler Y registered for A events, so it calls Handler Y with B. Handler Y accepts B objects even if it only "knows" A objects, since B `TrackingMgr`

finds Handler X registered for any event, so it calls Handler X with B. It also finds Handler Y registered for any event, but please note: This handler has already been called with A, so it will not be called again with the B object.It is common usage to define events in XSD. This is because it:

The following table displays all available events.

**Important** for ICM11+ and PWA: The Business Tracking Framework is still there with ICM11+ but with the PWA the only event that is really triggered is the OrderPlacedEvent. All other events are only implemented for Responsive Starter Store.

If you want to use the tracking framework with the PWA, then you must implement the desired events there.

Event | Is subtype of | Description | Attributes |
|---|---|---|---|
TrackingEvent | Object | The root event for any other events | - |
ViewEvent | TrackingEvent | The root event for all viewing events; Note: This event exists as a concrete event object itself and is not just an abstract superclass |
|
ProductActionEvent | TrackingEvent | The root event for all product action events |
|
UserActionEvent | TrackingEvent | The root event for all user action events |
|
ViewPageEvent | ViewEvent | An event for viewing pages |
|
ViewBasketEvent | ViewEvent | An event for viewing the basket |
|
ViewProductEvent | ViewEvent | An event for viewing products |
|
ViewCategoryEvent | ViewEvent | An event for viewing categories |
|
BasketAddProductEvent | ProductActionEvent | An event for adding a product to the cart | - |
BasketRemoveProductEvent | ProductActionEvent | An event for removing a product from the cart | - |
UserLoginEvent | UserActionEvent | An event for user is now logged in | - |
UserLogoutEvent | UserActionEvent | An event for user is now logged out | - |
OrderPlacedEvent | TrackingEvent | An event for viewing order information |
|

This table describes all data objects for implemented tracking events.

Name | Is subtype of | Description | Attributes |
|---|---|---|---|
TrackingBasket | Object | A container object for basket-related information |
|
TrackingCategory | Object | A container object for category-related information |
|
TrackingMoney | Object | A container object for money-related information |
|
TrackingOrder | Object | A container object for order-related information |
|
TrackingPageInformation | Object | A container object for page-related information |
|
TrackingProduct | Object | A container object for product-related information |
|
TrackingProductItem | Object | A container object for product-item-related information |
|
TrackingSearch | Object | A container object for search-related information |
|
TrackingSearchResult | TrackingSearch | A container object for search result item related information |
|
TrackingSearchFeedback | TrackingSearch | A container object for search-result-item-related information, e.g. a feedback form to let customers comment upon the search result. There is no such functionality yet in the demo store. |
|
TrackingSession | Object | A container object for current session-related information |
|
TrackingUser | Object | A container object for current session-related information |
|

All Events inherit from other Tracking Events. It is possible to listen to the corresponding events or to a root event, e.g., listen to the UserLoginEvent and UserLogoutEvent Events or to the root event UserActionEvent. New Events should inherit from an applicable Business Tracking Event. So think about the correct inheritance and do not simply use the TrackingEvent.

Any event defines its own set of data that it needs for processing. For these purposes, so-called Tracking Data Objects can be used. These objects should be created if they are used multiple times (for a number of events) or if they should represent a business object relation. As they are not directly connected with Enfinity's business objects, it is suggested to implement JAXB objects. This requires some mappers that map Enfinity's business objects to those JAXB objects. These mappers are called inside the [Fire..Event](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1758634321/Concept+-+Business+Tracking#Concept-BusinessTracking-Fire..Event)pipelets.

The `TrackingEventHandler`

expects that the Events and their data are only data containers. This means that they do not have methods which determine, calculate, create, or remove something. It is suggested to use JAXB to create new Events and new Event Data Objects.

The TrackingService implementing `ServiceDefinition`

is a stateless service object. It is created when loading the cartridge from the Component FW and is registered on the managed service framework.

It also manages the TrackingEventHandler.

The `TrackingEventHandler`

is a *stateless* component that receives an event and does "something" with it. It may call any remote tracking services or perform some local tracking tasks - whatever is needed.

The "do something" functionality is encapsulated in the **handleEvent** method. Since a "certain something" cannot not be more precisely described, both input and output parameters are generic (The event and *tracking data container* are just of the type `Object`

).

There are 2 more methods defined in the `TrackingEventHandler`

.

Introduction

The `TrackingEventHandler`

and the `TrackingService`

must be imagined as a stateless object. However, it should be possible to use some data from previous calls of that handler or service to enable that the pipeline is a holder of an object that is used as a *tracking data container*. It has no defined interface because it is completely unclear what kind of attributes and methods a *tracking data container* may own. So it is defined as being an `Object`

. Each pipelet accepts a *tracking data container* as an input parameter and serves a *tracking data container* as an output parameter.

`null`

. The pipeline will never do anything with it, it just reads and writes it to the pipeline dictionary. A handler or service implementation may instantiate an object as needed and return it as a The Fire..Event pipelets are the bridge between the tracking framework and pipeline development. Placing a Fire..Event pipelet anywhere in a pipeline means to let a certain event occur at runtime.

The tasks of Fire..Event Pipelet are

`TrackingMgr`

Since the creation of the event object from the input values is the most complex from the tasks above, it is sourced out to mappers. By now, those mappers are hard-wired. It is important to prove that the event can be built up by the mandatory input parameters, but the mapper must not fail if a value that is not mandatory is missing.

The components described here are wired with the help of the Component FW. Adding another `TrackingEventHandler`

means to register it on the corresponding tracking `ServiceDefinition`

. This `ServiceDefinition`

is registered on the service definition registry (see [Service Definition Registry](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1759446169/Concept+-+Managed+Service+Framework#Concept-ManagedServiceFramework-ServiceDefinitionRegistry)for details).

Usually an exception in a `TrackingService`

or in a `TrackingEventHandler`

should not interrupt the process flow. On the other hand, it might be necessary during development or qa tests to find exceptions very early. This is why it is configurable how the system acts on an exception: it can just log the error and return and continue as if nothing happened, and it can throw the exception so the user will get an exception page displayed.

Configuration file | %IS_HOME%/share/system/config/cluster/appserver.properties |
|---|---|
Property | intershop.tracking.OnError |
Possible values |
|
Default configuration | EXCEPTION |
Fallback | LOG |

The difference between *Default configuration* and *Fallback* is: The *Default configuration* is the configuration to be found in the file when setting up the system. The *Fallback* is used if no configuration for that key is to be found at all or if no known value can be found.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.