---
id: 'a7e9cc489c4e94eb01e6d15a37f0404b'
title: 'Public Release Note'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/455Z61'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:29:40.139222+00:00'
---
Welcome to Intershop Commerce Management 14.

This Public Release Note contains information about the latest features of Intershop Commerce Management. In addition, it serves as a quick reference for the latest documentation.

With this release, security and stability have been further improved through technology updates. Furthermore, the CMS Management REST API (back office) has been extended to support customer segments in the Design View in the Intershop Administration Portal (IAP).

Please note that the product syndication feature is now deprecated. You can continue to use product sharing.

Refer to our feature list for more details about the new release:

Refer to the following page for information about system requirements:

This section lists the main entry points for ICM 14 project development.

For a list of all available ICM 14 documents, use the ICM 14 filter in our [Knowledge Base](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Search?qdo=ReplaceFilter&qtset=PRD198&qtrem=PRD112&qoff=0).

For migrations to ICM 14 version, refer to:

[Overview - Customization - Development Process - ICM 11+](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48444277617/Overview+-+Customization+-+Development+Process+-+ICM+11)

[Concept - Intershop Commerce Platform DevOps - CI/CD Development Process](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48420488846/Concept+-+Intershop+Commerce+Platform+DevOps+-+CI+CD+Development+Process)

Product list performance improvement toggles

Two properties have been added that you can configure to limit the data retrieved and displayed in the back office product detail view to improve performance.

See [Guide - 14.0.2 - Toggles for Product List Performance Improvement in the Back Office UI](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/50315886593/Guide+-+14.0.2+-+Toggles+for+Product+List+Performance+Improvement+in+the+Back+Office+UI) for details.

The following updates of back office REST APIs improve the management and integration of customer segments and content components:

The [Customer Segment Management REST API](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/50098274356/Reference+-+Intershop+Commerce+Management+14+REST+API) has been introduced. Now, a list of all valid customer segments can be provided to back office applications.

The [CMS Management REST API](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/50152767489/Reference+-+CMS+Management+REST+API+1.2.0+Beta) has been extended. It is now possible to add customer segment relations to content components.

For an overview of all available REST APIs valid for ICM 14, see [Reference - Intershop Commerce Management 14 REST API](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/50098274356/Reference+-+Intershop+Commerce+Management+14+REST+API).

Technology Changes:

Tomcat has been updated from version 10 to 11.

Several other libraries have been updated.

For details, see [Guide - 14.0.1 - Migration Library Updates](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/50052497409/Guide+-+14.0.1+-+Migration+Library+Updates).

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.