---
id: 'a94b9e4acda8d7e34b13d6c8eea94e69'
title: 'Public Release Notes - Gradle Tools'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2599Y9'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:50.170423+00:00'
---
Note

This Gradle Tools version is included in Intershop 7 version 7.5.1. It can also be used along with all Intershop 7 versions 7.4.6.1 - 7.5.1.

This Gradle Tools version is based on [Gradle 2.1](http://www.gradle.org/docs/2.1/release-notes.html).

To use Gradle Tools version 2.1 with Intershop 7 version 7.4.6.1 to 7.5.0, perform the following steps to migrate your environment:

`createCorporateConfiguration`

and `createCorporateDistribution`

.`distributionUrl`

in Change the following properties in the *gradle.properties* file:

filter.com.intershop.build.set.cartridge-plugins=2.1.+ filter.com.intershop.build.set.extension-plugins=2.1.+ version.com.intershop.deployment-bootstrap=2.1.+

`'com.intershop:deployment-bootstrap:2.1.+'`

.Intershop Gradle Tools 2.1 are based on Gradle 2.1. The previous version was based on Gradle 2.0.

See [Gradle's own release notes](http://www.gradle.org/docs/2.1/release-notes) for changes.

You can now get additional information about your deployed system, that helps diagnosing deployment-related issues.

The [Cookbook - Gradle Deployment Tools (Recipe: List All Deployed Resources)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1783302208#Cookbook-GradleDeploymentTools(7.4CI-ICM7.7)-ListDeployedFiles) contains information on how to invoke this functionality and how to interpret its output.

Support for less strict validation of XML schemata was introduced with Gradle Tools 2.1. See [JAXB documentation](https://jaxb.java.net/2.2.11/docs/ch04.html#d0e4891):

Quote

By default, the XJC binding compiler performs strict validation of the source schema before processing it. Use this option to disable strict schema validation. This does not mean that the binding compiler will not perform any validation, it simply means that it will perform less-strict validation.

You can trigger this behaviour by disabling the `strictValidation`

property (default: `true`

):

[...] jaxb { [...] strictValidation = false }

If you point your `JAVA_HOME`

location to a symlink (like `/usr/java/default`

), this symlink was going to be resolved during deployment of Intershop 7.5.

When upgrading your local JDK version, which changes the symlink of `JAVA_HOME`

, Intershop 7.5 will still try to use the old location. In case the previous JDK version has been removed, the server will fail to start.

You have to redeploy your server after each JDK update in order to reset its location.

Starting with Gradle Tools 2.1, the deployment will retain symlinks for `JAVA_HOME`

, making it possible to update Java versions without the need to redeploy.

You need to redeploy the server once with Gradle Tools 2.1 to replace the resolved `JAVA_HOME`

path. Future JDK updates do not require deployment anymore.

Fixed the following known issues from [Public Release Notes - Gradle Tools - Version 2.0](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1796866623/Public+Release+Notes+-+Gradle+Tools+-+Version+2.0#PublicReleaseNotes-GradleTools-Version2.0-GradleTools-Version2.0-KnownIssues):

The intershop-ci-bootstrap will generate projects with dependencies to Gradle Tools plugins in version `2.+`

. This may break the build once newer releases of Gradle Tools are made available, because they may not be compatible with older Gradle base versions anymore.

Please change the following properties in all your gradle.properties files from

filter.com.intershop.build.set.cartridge-plugins=2.+ filter.com.intershop.build.set.extension-plugins=2.+ version.com.intershop.deployment-bootstrap=2.+

to

filter.com.intershop.build.set.cartridge-plugins=2.1.+ filter.com.intershop.build.set.extension-plugins=2.1.+ version.com.intershop.deployment-bootstrap=2.1.+

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.