---
id: 'aa265863517277174ee77b0762fc547e'
title: '12 Migration Process Overview'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/E31438'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:07.294649+00:00'
---
This guide describes the key steps required to migrate from ICM 7.10 to ICM 12+, including preparing the development environment, migrating cartridges, database backup and restoration, and the go-live.

Do not migrate your ICM 7.10 to ICM 12+ on the same database machine.

In general, the ICM 7.10 to ICM 12+ migration process requires the below steps:

Intershop will provide you with an ICM 12+ ADO project repository.

Intershop will provide you with an ICM 12+ PRD, UAT, and INT system with corresponding empty PRD, UAT, and INT databases.

At this stage, you will have a complete ICM 12+ development and Intershop Commerce platform environment required for the migration.

Use the provided ICM 12+ ADO repository to migrate the cartridges from the former ICM 7.10 project.

Validate the ICM 12+ development project to ensure proper functionality.

Verify that all preparers are functioning correctly and that the system behaves as expected.

If your ICM 12+ project works with migrated code, you can create and use a backup from your former ICM 7.10 database instance.

For example, you can create a backup from your ICM 7.10 INT, UAT or PRD database and restore it in your expected ICM 12+ database instance.

An ICM 12+ startup will implicitly call the preparers to migrate your 7.10 database schema to ICM 12+, allowing you to confirm if the ICM 12+ PRD startup will work in the future.

If this works without issues, you can expect it to work for PRD, UAT, or INT database dumps as well.

On the go-live day, the database administrator (DBA) will create a fresh dump of the ICM 7.10 PRD database.

The dump will be imported into the ICM 12+ PRD system and database.

The ICM 12+ startup process will migrate the database schema from ICM 7.10 to ICM 12+ as tested before.

ICM 12+ will be up and running.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.