---
id: 'aa33d350a8829db4b8ebf952e5e5c8e6'
title: 'Product Image Management'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3219L4'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:56.138929+00:00'
---
# Product Image Management

As part of the store setup, a sales or partner organization configures the product images that will be available for the possibly multiple product views in the storefront, like, for example, catalog list view, detail view or cart view.

Image management comprises the following main tasks:

-
Uploading physical images

Physical image files intended to be used as product images must be uploaded to the Intershop Commerce Management system. Prior to actually importing files, it is possible to create a dedicated directory structure to store and manage the uploaded content.

For details on how to upload images, refer to

[Managing Image Files](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/topic_managing_image_files.html#task_pim_images_upl). -
Managing image views

An image view defines the perspective or the context in which the product is shown on the image. Each of these views may be available in several dimensions as defined by the image type.

Organizations can define a primary image view, which is used as default if no other image view is set as primary at product level.

For details on how to manage image views, refer to

[Managing Image Views](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/topic_managing_image_views.html#task_pim_images_views). -
Managing image types

Image types are available for product images and category images.

An image type is used to typecast the individual physical images that are available for a specific image view. The type can distinguish between various image sizes (e.g., zoom, standard, thumbnail), quality scales (e.g., low, medium, high_externally_hosted), MIME types (e.g., gif, png, tiff) and also defines the image upload location.

In addition to the primary image view (or predefined image sets, if any), catalog managers can associate extra image view/type combinations to products, thus making them available for use on product detail pages, for example.

The following parameters are available:

Table 1. Image type details Parameter Status Description Name mandatory Specifies the display name of the image type. ID mandatory Specifies the system-internal ID of the image type. Source mandatory Specifies whether the images are retrieved from a local (Intershop Commerce Management) image directory or an external server (internal|external). Note:'Cloudinary' as source is only available if the Cloudinary service is set up, for details, see[Guide - Image Server - Cloudinary](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/H29867).URL Prefix optional (see description) Specifies the URL prefix required to resolve the complete location of the image files. For internal (Intershop Commerce Management) locations, the path starts with `<site>/:`. An empty prefix allows to adjust the storage location of images flexibly. This means images can not only be stored in the organization's shared file system but also in the shared file system of a channel.For information on how to define if channels have access to image sources stored in the organization's shared file system see

[Managing Image Settings](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/task_managing_image_settings.html).Width optional Specifies the width of an image that is subject to the current type. This parameter is intended to be used by the content components that relate to the current image type. Height optional Specifies the height of an image that is subject to the current type. This parameter is intended to be used by the content components that relate to the current image type. Fallback Image optional Specifies an image intended to be used as a fallback option. Clicking the Select button opens a dialog for browsing the local image directories and selecting an available image. For details on how to manage image types refer to

[Managing Image Types](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/topic_managing_image_types.html#task_pim_images_types). Managing image sets

Image sets are a means to combine image views and image types. These combinations can then easily be applied to product classifications or used by accordingly set up content components.

For details on how to manage image sets, refer to[Managing Image Sets](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/topic_managing_image_sets.html#task_pim_images_sets).

For details on how to manage images, see [Managing Product and Category Images](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/topic_managing_product_images.html).