---
id: 'aa9bb949b320aa19664ec12db9e93e23'
title: 'Searching Page Variants'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3Z2498'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:47.787438+00:00'
---
# Searching Page Variants

## Simple Page Variant Search

To use the Simple Search mask:

-
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Page Variants.
This opens the Page Variants list view.
-
Specify the page variant name or page content to be retrieved.
If necessary, select a page type to narrow the search.Note:It is not possible to search for content of shared page variants with overwritten content, see
[Managing Shared Content Modifications](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/content_management/topic_managing_shared_content_modifications.html#task_page_share_mod). The search always produces results based on the original content. -
Click Find.
The results are displayed in the list view.

Tip:

The Simple Search mask is displayed by default. If you previously used the Advanced Search mask, click Switch to Simple Search.

## Advanced Page Variant Search

-
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Page Variants.
This opens the Page Variants list view.
- Click Switch to Advanced Search.
-
Specify your search criteria in the corresponding fields.
The corresponding fields are self-explanatory.Note:It is not possible to search for content of shared page variants with overwritten content, see
[Managing Shared Content Modifications](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/content_management/topic_managing_shared_content_modifications.html#task_page_share_mod). The search always produces results based on the original content.Tip:Product or category filters restrict the search to page variants that are assigned to the filtered products or categories. Creating filters constitutes an additional (advanced) search for the corresponding object. Once the filter is created and applied, you are taken back to the original advanced page variant search. -
Click Find.
The results are displayed in the list view.