---
id: 'aae4811d81d825e4767c6410a5cd6515'
title: 'Reference'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/276D94'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:36:54.519814+00:00'
---
This document lists the commonly used command line tools and scripts that are provided with Intershop Commerce Management.

| Term | Description |
|---|---|
| ISF | Intershop Shared Files |
| WA | Web Adapter |
| WAA | Web Adapter agent |

Tool/Script | Location | Description |
|---|---|---|
dbinit.sh | bat | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/bin/ | Executes the database initialization process. The switch -is.share allows for using an optional ISF. |
dbmigrate.sh | bat | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/bin/ | Executes the database migration process. The switch -is.share allows for using an optional ISF. |
dbtool.sh | bat | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/bin/ | Intended to start Oracle database tools like SQL Plus without having to enter the database password in the command line. It retrieves the password from <IS.INSTANCE.SHARE>/system/config/cluster/orm.properties and passes it to the stdin of the respective Oracle database tool. The name of the password property can be specified as a parameter, but defaults to intershop.jdbc.password. The switch -is.share allows for using an optional ISF. |
eserver#-ase | /etc/init.d/ | Instance-specific scripts to start individual service (Intershop Application Server, Web server, Web Adapter agent) of an Intershop Commerce Management instance (Linux only). Commands:
|
eserver# | /usr/bin/ | Instance-specific script to start or stop all components of an Intershop Commerce Management instance (Linux only) |
encode_password.sh | bat | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/bin/ | Encodes passwords for Tomcat users. Must be run when a new user for Cluster Management is to be added in <IS.INSTANCE.SHARE>/system/tcm/config/users.xml. |
environment.sh | bat | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/bin/ | Sets the Intershop Commerce Management environment, i.e., the needed Intershop Commerce Management, Oracle, Java and Ant system variables as well as PATH and LD_LIBRARY_PATH. This script is automatically executed with other Intershop Commerce Management command calls. |
isclc.sh | cmd | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/tools/clc/ | Starts an Intershop Commerce Management import process or any configured job from the command line, see |
isservice.exe | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/bin/ | Starts the Win32 service "Intershop Commerce Management Application Server (#)", i.e., starts the Intershop Commerce Management Node Manager in background mode (Windows only). |
nodemanager.sh | bat | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/bin/ | Starts the Intershop Commerce Management Node Manager. The Node Manager then starts the application server processes as defined in its configuration (in <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/engine/nodemanager/config/nodemanager.properties). This script is used internally by the Intershop Commerce Management start/stop script. Note You should use nodemanager.sh only for development or debugging purposes. To start the Intershop Commerce Management instance for normal operation, use /etc/init.d/eserver or, on Windows, the Win32 service "Intershop Commerce Management Application Server (#)". |
nodemanager_start.sh | start_intershop.bat | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/bin/ | Starts the Intershop Commerce Management Node Manager in background mode. The Node Manager then starts the application server processes as defined in its configuration (in <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/engine/nodemanager/config/nodemanager.properties). This script is used internally by the Intershop Commerce Management start/stop script. |
nodemanager_stop.sh | stop_intershop.bat | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/bin/ | Stops a background Intershop Commerce Management Node Manager and thus, the application server processes as defined in its configuration (in <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/engine/nodemanager/config/nodemanager.properties). This script is used internally by the Intershop Commerce Management start/stop script. |
notUsableIndexes.sh | bat | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/bin/ | Lists and, optionally, deletes all unused (redundant) indexes in the Intershop Commerce Management database. |
tomcat.sh | bat | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/bin/ | Starts an instance of the Tomcat application server. This script is used internally by the Intershop Commerce Management Node Manager. |
waa.sh | cmd | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/webadapter/bin/ | Starts the Intershop Commerce Management Web Adapter agent. The Web Adapter agent is primarily responsible for the selective page cache deletion and the deletion of outdated page caches. This script is used internally by the Intershop Commerce Management start/stop script /etc/init.d/eserver. Note You should use waa.sh only for development or debugging purposes. To start the WAA for normal operation, use /etc/init.d/eserver or, on Windows, the Win32 service "Intershop Intershop Commerce Management Webadapter Agent (#)". |
waa_env.sh | cmd | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/webadapter/bin/ | Sets the environment for the Web Adapter agent. This script is used internally by the WAA start/stop scripts. |
WA-AgentService.exe | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/webadapter/bin/ | Starts the Win32 service "Intershop Commerce Management Webadapter Agent (#)", i.e., starts the Intershop Commerce Management Web Adapter agent in background mode (Windows only). |
watchdog_waa_start.sh | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/webadapter/bin/ | Starts the Intershop Commerce Management Web Adapter agent in background mode (Unix only). This script is used internally by the Intershop Commerce Management start/stop script. |
watchdog_waa_stop.sh | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/webadapter/bin/ | Stops a background Intershop Commerce Management Web Adapter agent (Unix only). This script is used internally by the Intershop Commerce Management start/stop script. |
ant clean-log-files | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/tools/misc/ | Cleans all log file directories |
ant dbextract | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/tools/misc/ | Extracts table, index and constraint structures from the Intershop Commerce Management database schema |
ant dbextract_sources | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/tools/misc/ | Extracts PL/SQL sources of the current schema |
ant dbping | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/tools/misc/ | Tests the database connectivity with the current ORM and tnsnames settings |
ant dbschema-clean | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/tools/misc/ | Drops all database schema objects |
ant disable-foreign-keys | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/tools/misc/ | Disables all foreign keys in the database |
ant enable-foreign-keys | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/tools/misc/ | Enables all foreign keys in the database |
ant expdp | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/tools/misc/ | Exports the database content into a database server file with Oracle data pump. ant -p -f dump.xml gives more information |
ant export | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/tools/misc/ | Exports the content of the Intershop Commerce Management database to a dump file |
ant export-sequence-info | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/tools/misc/ | Exports the Intershop Commerce Management-specific sequence information into a file |
ant exportandfixts | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/tools/misc/ | Exports the database content and fixes the tablespace name within an Oracle dump export file |
ant fixts | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/tools/misc/ | Fixes the tablespace names within an Oracle dump export file |
ant impdp | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/tools/misc/ | Imports the database content from a database server file with Oracle data pump. ant -p -f dump.xml gives more information |
ant import | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/tools/misc/ | Imports a database dump file into the Intershop Commerce Management database |
ant recreate-ctx-indexes | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/tools/misc/ | Recreates all context indexes in the database |
ant ssh_keygen | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/tools/misc/ | Generates the key pair needed for SSH transfer of the report cartridge |
ant test | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/tools/misc/ | Starts the eTest runner |
ant uuid | <IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/tools/misc/ | Generates a UUID that can be used as a primary key for a persistent object |

For all Ant task targets defined in *<IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/tools/misc/build.xml*, the command switch `-Dis.share`

allows for using an optional ISF.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.