---
id: 'ab0d2fb93725eda2ebbc0e0721c74c79'
title: 'Reference'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/4557M1'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:30:11.615039+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/4557M1

This API specification is available for download as an Open API 3.0 YAML file:

# References

The following page lists available REST APIs for ICM 14 and their version dependencies:

# API Specification

openapi: 3.0.1 info: title: CMS Management description: |- The _CMS Management REST API_ contains resources that allow you to perform all of the major actions required to manage content in Intershop Commerce Management (back office). The _CMS Management REST API_ is subject to change and potential breaking updates in future releases. For more information on content management, refer to [Concept - CMS - Overview](https://support.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/272U59). Please contact our Intershop experts at [Support - Intershop Communications](https://www.intershop.com/en/support) if you have any questions about this REST API. ## Changelog - - - ### Version 1.2.0-beta * Added `customerSegments` to `ComponentRO_v1` to allow customer segments to be assigned and managed on components via the `cms/components/` endpoint. ### Version 1.1.0-beta * Added new `GET /cms/pagestructure/{entryPointKey}` endpoint to retrieve a hierarchical component structure of pages and includes for the specified entry point. version: 1.2.0-beta servers: - url: "/INTERSHOP/rest/{serverGroup}/{siteName}/{appUrl}" description: Intershop ICM Server variables: serverGroup: description: The server group enum: - BOS - JOB - WFS default: WFS siteName: description: The site name default: inSPIRED-Site appUrl: description: The application URL identifier enum: - inTRONICS - inTRONICS-rest - inTRONICS_Business - inTRONICS_Business-rest - ShoppingLive - ShoppingLive-rest default: inTRONICS-rest tags: - name: Page Structure description: This section covers operations to retrieve a hierarchical component structure of pages and includes. x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resource.pagestructure.PageStructureResource paths: /cms/components: get: tags: - Components summary: Returns a list of all components of the domain description: "This operation returns a list of all published components in the\ \ domain. \nComponents that are shared with this domain are also displayed.\ \ \nUnlike the Content Management REST API for the storefront, this REST API\ \ also displays offline components." operationId: getComponents parameters: - name: offset in: query schema: type: integer format: int32 default: 0 - name: amount in: query schema: type: integer format: int32 default: 50 responses: "200": description: OK content: application/json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ComponentListResponse" "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: |- Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. The user needs to be at least content viewer to access this resource. x-origin-method: "public com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resourceobject.componentlist.ComponentListResponse\ \ com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resource.ComponentListResource.getComponents(int,int)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resource.ComponentListResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" /cms/components/{componentsKey}: get: tags: - Components summary: Returns a specific component of the domain description: |- This operation returns a specific component of the domain. The local data (information, which is stored on this domain) is provided in the `data` block, while the resolved data, the actual state of the component, is provided in the `info` block. operationId: getComponent parameters: - name: componentsKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resource.ComponentListResource responses: "200": description: OK content: application/json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ComponentResponse" "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: |- Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. The user needs to be at least content viewer to access this resource. "404": description: Not found - A component with the given ID could not be found in the sharing path. x-origin-method: public com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resourceobject.component.ComponentResponse com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resource.ComponentResource.getComponent() x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resource.ComponentResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" put: tags: - Components summary: Creates a new component in the domain description: "This operation creates a new local component. \nThere must be\ \ no existing component with the same ID in the sharing path." operationId: createComponent parameters: - name: componentsKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resource.ComponentListResource requestBody: description: |- The object containing the data to create the component with the given ID. The `model` field is required. Based on the model, specific fields or parameter entries can be required. All other fields are optional. content: '*/*': schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ComponentRO_v1" required: true responses: "200": description: OK content: application/json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ComponentResponse" "400": description: Bad Request - The JSON body is missing or syntactically incorrect. "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: |- Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. The user needs to be at least content manager to access this resource. "409": description: Conflict - The JSON body is semantically incorrect. x-origin-method: public com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resourceobject.component.ComponentResponse com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resource.ComponentResource.createComponent(java.lang.String) x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resource.ComponentResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" delete: tags: - Components summary: Removes a specific local component of the domain or removes the overwriting of a shared component description: |- This operation deletes an existing component, if it is local. Alternatively, if the component is shared, the derived component will be removed. operationId: deleteComponent parameters: - name: componentsKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resource.ComponentListResource responses: "200": description: OK - The overwriting was sucessfully removed. content: application/json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ComponentResponse" "204": description: No content - the component was completely removed from the sharing path. "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: |- Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. The user needs to be at least content manager to access this resource. x-origin-method: public com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resourceobject.component.ComponentResponse com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resource.ComponentResource.deleteComponent() x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resource.ComponentResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" patch: tags: - Components summary: Updates an existing component in the domain description: |- This operation updates an existing component, if it is local. Alternatively, if the component is shared, a derived component will be created or updated. operationId: updateComponent parameters: - name: componentsKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resource.ComponentListResource requestBody: description: |- The object containing the data to update the component with the given ID. The `model` field cannot be changed. All other fields are optional. To reset a field, it must be set to `null`. Lists are sent in their new state, so they must be sent completely. content: '*/*': schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ComponentRO_v1" required: true responses: "200": description: OK content: application/json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ComponentResponse" "400": description: Bad Request - The JSON body is missing or syntactically incorrect. "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: |- Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. The user needs to be at least content manager to access this resource. "404": description: Not found - A component with the given ID could not be found in the sharing path. "409": description: Conflict - The JSON body is semantically incorrect. x-origin-method: public com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resourceobject.component.ComponentResponse com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resource.ComponentResource.updateComponent(java.lang.String) x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resource.ComponentResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" /cms/models/components: get: tags: - Models summary: Returns a list of all component models of the domain description: This operation returns a list of all component models of the domain. operationId: getContentModelResources responses: "200": description: OK content: application/json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ComponentModelListResponse" "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: |- Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. The user needs to be at least content viewer to access this resource. x-origin-method: public com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resourceobject.model.ComponentModelListResponse com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resource.models.ComponentModelListResource.getContentModelResources() x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resource.models.ComponentModelListResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" /cms/models/components/{componentsKey}: get: tags: - Models summary: Returns a specific component model of the domain description: This operation returns a specific component model of the domain. operationId: getComponentModelById parameters: - name: componentsKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resource.models.ComponentModelListResource responses: "200": description: OK content: application/json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ComponentModelResponse" "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: |- Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. The user needs to be at least content viewer to access this resource. "404": description: Not found - A component model with the given ID could not be found. x-origin-method: public com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resourceobject.model.ComponentModelResponse com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resource.models.ComponentModelResource.getComponentModelById() x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resource.models.ComponentModelResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" /cms/pagestructure/{entryPointKey}: get: tags: - Page Structure summary: Returns the component structure for a page or include description: This operation returns the hierarchical component structure of pages and includes for the specified entry point. operationId: getPageStructure parameters: - name: entryPointKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resource.pagestructure.PageStructureListResource responses: "200": description: OK content: application/json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PageStructureResponse" "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: |- Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. The user needs to be at least content viewer to access this resource. "404": description: Not found - The enty point with the given ID could not be found. x-origin-method: public com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resourceobject.pagestructure.PageStructureResponse com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resource.pagestructure.PageStructureResource.getPageStructure() x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resource.pagestructure.PageStructureResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" /cms/pagetree: get: tags: - Pagetree summary: Returns a list of all pagetrees of the domain description: This operation returns a list of all pagetrees of the domain. operationId: getPageTrees parameters: - name: offset in: query schema: type: integer format: int32 default: 0 - name: amount in: query schema: type: integer format: int32 default: 50 responses: "200": description: OK content: application/json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PageTreeListResponse" "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: |- Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. The user needs to be at least content viewer to access this resource. x-origin-method: "public com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resourceobject.pagetreelist.PageTreeListResponse\ \ com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resource.pagetree.PageTreeListResource.getPageTrees(int,int)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resource.pagetree.PageTreeListResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" /cms/pagetree/{pagetreeKey}: get: tags: - Pagetree summary: Returns a specific pagetree of the domain description: This operation returns a specific component model of the domain. operationId: getPageTree parameters: - name: pagetreeKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resource.pagetree.PageTreeListResource responses: "200": description: OK content: application/json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PageTreeResponse" "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: |- Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. The user needs to be at least content viewer to access this resource. "404": description: Not found - A pagetree with the given ID could not be found. x-origin-method: public com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resourceobject.pagetree.PageTreeResponse com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resource.pagetree.PageTreeResource.getPageTree() x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resource.pagetree.PageTreeResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" components: schemas: FeedbackCauseRO_v1: title: FeedbackCauseRO_v1 required: - code - message type: object properties: code: type: string description: A unique identifier for this particular occurrence of the problem (may be used for localization on client-side) example: product.name.required.error message: type: string description: A human readable message in the request's locale example: The product name must be specified. parameters: type: array description: A map of several parameters that are used to assemble the message items: type: object additionalProperties: type: object paths: type: array description: "A collection of JSON paths to the associated entities. Unless\ \ otherwise specified, this always refers to the request entity." example: - "\"$.name (position: 1)\"" externalDocs: url: https://github.com/json-path/JsonPath items: type: string description: A representation for the common feedback information FeedbackRO_v1: title: FeedbackRO_v1 required: - code - message type: object properties: causes: type: array description: A collection of errors/warnings/infos that caused the feedback items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackCauseRO_v1" code: type: string description: A unique identifier for this particular occurrence of the problem (may be used for localization on client-side) example: product.name.required.error message: type: string description: A human readable message in the request's locale example: The product name must be specified. parameters: type: array description: A map of several parameters that are used to assemble the message items: type: object additionalProperties: type: object paths: type: array description: "A collection of JSON paths to the associated entities. Unless\ \ otherwise specified, this always refers to the request entity." example: - "\"$.name (position: 1)\"" externalDocs: url: https://github.com/json-path/JsonPath items: type: string level: type: string description: The level of the feedback example: ERROR enum: - INFO - WARN - ERROR status: type: string description: The HTTP status code that is applicable to this problem example: "422" description: An error or piece of information related to the current request readOnly: true LocalizedStringRO: title: LocalizedString type: array properties: empty: type: boolean first: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" last: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" LocalizedValueString: title: LocalizedValueString_v1 type: object properties: locale: type: string description: The locale of the string example: en_US value: type: string description: The value of the localized string example: LocString description: A localized string value PageStructureInfoRO: type: object description: The optional info of the response object PageStructureRO: type: object properties: id: type: string description: The unique identifier of the page structure element displayName: type: array properties: empty: type: boolean first: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" last: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" definitionQualifiedName: type: string description: The qualified name of the element definition type: type: string description: 'The type of the element. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate elements by their type. ' enum: - page - include - component - slot publishing: $ref: "#/components/schemas/VisibilityRO" visibility: $ref: "#/components/schemas/VisibilityRO" online: type: boolean description: "The online status of this element is calculated based on its\ \ publishing and visibility information, as well as the online status\ \ of its parent elements." elements: type: array description: The list of elements items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PageStructureRO" description: The core data of the response object PageStructureResponse: type: object properties: id: type: string description: The ID of the response object data: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PageStructureRO" info: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PageStructureInfoRO" messages: type: array description: List of messages regarding to the request (e.g. value adjustments) readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" VisibilityRO: type: object properties: from: type: string format: date-time to: type: string format: date-time online: type: boolean overwritten: type: boolean description: Visibility settings of the component ComponentModelInfo: type: object properties: resourceSetId: type: string description: The optional info of the response object ComponentModelListResponse: type: object properties: data: type: array items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ComponentModelResponse" ComponentModelRO: type: object properties: displayName: type: array properties: empty: type: boolean first: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" last: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" description: type: array properties: empty: type: boolean first: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" last: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" group: type: array properties: empty: type: boolean first: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" last: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" parameters: type: array items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ConfigurationParameterDefinitionRO" description: The core data of the response object ComponentModelResponse: type: object properties: id: type: string description: The ID of the response object data: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ComponentModelRO" info: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ComponentModelInfo" messages: type: array description: List of messages regarding to the request (e.g. value adjustments) readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" ConfigurationParameterDefinitionRO: type: object properties: id: type: string name: type: string description: The name of an element displayName: type: array properties: empty: type: boolean first: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" last: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" description: type: array properties: empty: type: boolean first: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" last: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" type: type: string description: 'The type of the element. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate elements by their type. ' optional: type: boolean localizable: type: boolean multiple: type: boolean visible: type: boolean bindings: type: array items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ParameterValueBindingRO" ParameterValueBindingRO: type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element value: type: string Attribute_v1: title: Attribute_v1 required: - name - type type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of the (custom) attribute example: CustomAttributeName value: type: object description: The value of the (custom) attribute with the defined type type: type: string description: The type of the (custom) attribute enum: - Integer - Double - String - IntegerList - DoubleList - StringList - Long - Boolean - Date - Decimal - Money - Quantity - LongList - BooleanList - DateList - DecimalList - LocalizedInteger - LocalizedDouble - LocalizedString - LocalizedIntegerList - LocalizedDoubleList - LocalizedStringList - LocalizedLong - LocalizedBoolean - LocalizedDate - LocalizedDecimal - LocalizedMoney - LocalizedQuantity - LocalizedLongList - LocalizedBooleanList - LocalizedDateList - LocalizedDecimalList discriminator: propertyName: type mapping: Integer: "#/components/schemas/IntegerAttribute_v1" Double: "#/components/schemas/DoubleAttribute_v1" String: "#/components/schemas/StringAttribute_v1" IntegerList: "#/components/schemas/IntegerListAttribute_v1" DoubleList: "#/components/schemas/DoubleListAttribute_v1" StringList: "#/components/schemas/StringListAttribute_v1" Long: "#/components/schemas/LongAttribute_v1" Boolean: "#/components/schemas/BooleanAttribute_v1" Date: "#/components/schemas/DateAttribute_v1" Decimal: "#/components/schemas/DecimalAttribute_v1" Money: "#/components/schemas/MoneyAttribute_v1" Quantity: "#/components/schemas/QuantityAttribute_v1" LongList: "#/components/schemas/LongListAttribute_v1" BooleanList: "#/components/schemas/BooleanListAttribute_v1" DateList: "#/components/schemas/DateListAttribute_v1" DecimalList: "#/components/schemas/DecimalListAttribute_v1" LocalizedInteger: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedIntegerAttribute_v1" LocalizedDouble: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedDoubleAttribute_v1" LocalizedString: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedStringAttribute_v1" LocalizedIntegerList: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedIntegerListAttribute_v1" LocalizedDoubleList: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedDoubleListAttribute_v1" LocalizedStringList: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedStringListAttribute_v1" LocalizedLong: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedLongAttribute_v1" LocalizedBoolean: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedBooleanAttribute_v1" LocalizedDate: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedDateAttribute_v1" LocalizedDecimal: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedDecimalAttribute_v1" LocalizedMoney: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedMoneyAttribute_v1" LocalizedQuantity: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedQuantityAttribute_v1" LocalizedLongList: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedLongListAttribute_v1" LocalizedBooleanList: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedBooleanListAttribute_v1" LocalizedDateList: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedDateListAttribute_v1" LocalizedDecimalList: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedDecimalListAttribute_v1" oneOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/IntegerAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/DoubleAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/StringAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/IntegerListAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/DoubleListAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/StringListAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LongAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/BooleanAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/DateAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/DecimalAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/QuantityAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LongListAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/BooleanListAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/DateListAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/DecimalListAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedIntegerAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedDoubleAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedStringAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedIntegerListAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedDoubleListAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedStringListAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedLongAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedBooleanAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedDateAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedDecimalAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedMoneyAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedQuantityAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedLongListAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedBooleanListAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedDateListAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedDecimalListAttribute_v1" BooleanAttribute_v1: title: BooleanAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: boolean description: The boolean value of the (custom) attribute example: true type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: Boolean)" example: Boolean BooleanListAttribute_v1: title: BooleanListAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The boolean list value of the (custom) attribute example: - true - false items: type: boolean type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: BooleanList)" example: BooleanList ComponentInfoRO: type: object properties: resolved: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ComponentRO_v1" author: type: string definitionQualifiedName: type: string resourceSetId: type: string domain: type: string shared: type: boolean overwritten: type: boolean description: The optional info of the response object ComponentLinksRO: type: object properties: self: type: string ComponentListInfoRO: type: object properties: paging: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PagingInfoRO" description: The optional info of the response object ComponentListResponse: type: object properties: data: type: array description: The core data of the response object items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ComponentResponse" info: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ComponentListInfoRO" messages: type: array description: List of messages regarding to the request (e.g. value adjustments) readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" ComponentRO_v1: type: object properties: attributes: type: array description: The (custom) attributes of an object items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" customerSegments: type: array description: List of customer segment IDs assigned to the component items: type: string description: List of customer segment IDs assigned to the component description: type: array properties: empty: type: boolean first: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" last: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" displayName: type: array properties: empty: type: boolean first: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" last: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" model: type: string description: ID of the model. Can only be set when creating a component via PUT request. readOnly: true parameters: type: array description: List of configuration parameters assigned to the component items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ConfigurationParameterRO" slots: type: array description: List of slots assigned to the component items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/SlotRO" visibility: $ref: "#/components/schemas/VisibilityRO" description: "Data object used to synchronize components between Intershop ICM\ \ and external systems. Note: Beta version - This class can still be subject\ \ to change." ComponentResponse: type: object properties: id: type: string description: The ID of the response object data: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ComponentRO_v1" info: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ComponentInfoRO" messages: type: array description: List of messages regarding to the request (e.g. value adjustments) readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" links: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ComponentLinksRO" ConfigurationParameterRO: type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element value: type: object overwritten: type: boolean description: List of configuration parameters assigned to the component DateAttribute_v1: title: DateAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: string description: The date of the (custom) attribute format: date-time type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: Date)" example: Date DateListAttribute_v1: title: DateListAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The date list of the (custom) attribute example: - 2026-12-31T22:59:00.000Z - 2026-12-31T22:58:00.000Z items: type: string format: date-time type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: DateList)" example: DateList DecimalAttribute_v1: title: DecimalAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: number description: The decimal value of (custom) the attribute example: 50 type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: Decimal)" example: Decimal DecimalListAttribute_v1: title: DecimalListAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The decimal list of the (custom) attribute example: - 50 - 100 items: type: number type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: DecimalList)" example: DecimalList DoubleAttribute_v1: title: DoubleAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: number description: The double value of the (custom) attribute format: double example: 1.0 type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: Double)" example: Double DoubleListAttribute_v1: title: DoubleListAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The double list value of the (custom) attribute example: - 1.0 - 2.0 items: type: number format: double type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: DoubleList)" example: DoubleList IntegerAttribute_v1: title: IntegerAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: integer description: The integer value of the (custom) attribute format: int32 example: 10 type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: Integer)" example: Integer IntegerListAttribute_v1: title: IntegerListAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The integer list value of the (custom) attribute example: - 10 - 20 items: type: integer format: int32 type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: IntegerList)" example: IntegerList LocalizedBooleanAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedBooleanAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The value of the localized boolean items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueBoolean" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedBoolean)" example: LocalizedBoolean LocalizedBooleanListAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedBooleanListAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The values of the localized boolean list items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueListBoolean" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedBooleanList)" example: LocalizedBooleanList LocalizedDateAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedDateAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The value of the localized date items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueDate" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedDate)" example: LocalizedDate LocalizedDateListAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedDateListAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The values of the localized date list items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueListDate" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedDateList)" example: LocalizedDateList LocalizedDecimalAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedDecimalAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The value of the localized decimal items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueBigDecimal" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedDecimal)" example: LocalizedDecimal LocalizedDecimalListAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedDecimalListAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The values of the localized decimal list items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueListBigDecimal" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedDecimalList)" example: LocalizedDecimalList LocalizedDoubleAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedDoubleAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The value of the localized double items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueDouble" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedDouble)" example: LocalizedDouble LocalizedDoubleListAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedDoubleListAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The values of the localized double list items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueListDouble" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedDoubleList)" example: LocalizedDoubleList LocalizedIntegerAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedIntegerAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The value of the localized integer items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueInteger" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedInteger)" example: LocalizedInteger LocalizedIntegerListAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedIntegerListAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The values of the localized integer list items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueListInteger" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedIntegerList)" example: LocalizedIntegerList LocalizedLongAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedLongAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The value of the localized long items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueLong" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedLong)" example: LocalizedLong LocalizedLongListAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedLongListAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The values of the localized long list items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueListLong" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedLongList)" example: LocalizedLongList LocalizedMoneyAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedMoneyAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The value of the localized money items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueMoneyRO_v1" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedMoney)" example: LocalizedMoney LocalizedQuantityAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedQuantityAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The value of the localized quantity items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueQuantityRO_v1" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedQuantity)" example: LocalizedQuantity LocalizedStringAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedStringAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The value of the localized string items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedString)" example: LocalizedString LocalizedStringListAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedStringListAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The values of the localized string list items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueListString" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedStringList)" example: LocalizedStringList LocalizedValueBigDecimal: title: LocalizedValueBigDecimal_v1 type: object properties: locale: type: string description: The locale of the data of type BigDecimal example: en_US value: type: number description: The value of the localized data of type BigDecimal example: 10 LocalizedValueBoolean: title: LocalizedValueBoolean_v1 type: object properties: locale: type: string description: The locale of the data of type boolean example: en_US value: type: boolean description: The value of the localized data of type boolean example: true LocalizedValueDate: title: LocalizedValueDate_v1 type: object properties: locale: type: string description: The locale of the date example: en_US value: type: string description: The value of the localized date format: date-time example: 2026-12-31T23:00:00Z LocalizedValueDouble: title: LocalizedValueDouble_v1 type: object properties: locale: type: string description: The locale of the data of type double example: en_US value: type: number description: The value of the localized data of type double format: double example: 5.0 LocalizedValueInteger: title: LocalizedValueInteger_v1 type: object properties: locale: type: string description: The locale of the data of type integer example: en_US value: type: integer description: The value of the localized data of type integer format: int32 example: 2 LocalizedValueListBigDecimal: title: LocalizedValueListBigDecimal_v1 type: object properties: locale: type: string description: The locale of the BigDecimal list entry example: en_US value: type: array description: The value of the localized BigDecimal list entry example: "50" items: type: number LocalizedValueListBoolean: title: LocalizedValueListBoolean_v1 type: object properties: locale: type: string description: The locale of the boolean list entry example: en_US value: type: array description: The value of the localized boolean list entry example: "true" items: type: boolean LocalizedValueListDate: title: LocalizedValueListDate_v1 type: object properties: locale: type: string description: The locale of the date list entry example: en_US value: type: array description: The value of the localized date list entry example: 2026-12-31T21:00:00Z items: type: string format: date-time LocalizedValueListDouble: title: LocalizedValueListDouble_v1 type: object properties: locale: type: string description: The locale of the double list entry example: en_US value: type: array description: The value of the localized double list entry example: "4.0" items: type: number format: double LocalizedValueListInteger: title: LocalizedValueListInteger_v1 type: object properties: locale: type: string description: The locale of the integer list entry example: en_US value: type: array description: The value of the localized integer list entry example: "8" items: type: integer format: int32 LocalizedValueListLong: title: LocalizedValueListLong_v1 type: object properties: locale: type: string description: The locale of the long list entry example: en_US value: type: array description: The value of the localized long list entry example: 2L items: type: integer format: int64 LocalizedValueListString: title: LocalizedValueListString_v1 type: object properties: locale: type: string description: The locale of the string list entry example: en_US value: type: array description: The value of the localized string list entry example: - LocString1 - LocString2 items: type: string description: A localized string list LocalizedValueLong: title: LocalizedValueLong_v1 type: object properties: locale: type: string description: The locale of the data of type long example: en_US value: type: integer description: The value of the localized data of type long format: int64 LocalizedValueMoneyRO_v1: type: object properties: locale: type: string value: $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1" LocalizedValueQuantityRO_v1: type: object properties: locale: type: string value: $ref: "#/components/schemas/QuantityRO_v1" LongAttribute_v1: title: LongAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: integer description: The long value of the (custom) attribute format: int64 type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: Long)" example: Long LongListAttribute_v1: required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The long list value of the (custom) attribute items: type: integer format: int64 type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LongList)" example: LongList MoneyAttribute_v1: title: MoneyAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: Money)" example: Money MoneyRO_v1: title: MoneyRO_v1 type: object properties: amount: type: number description: The monetary amount example: 10.99 currency: type: string description: Three-letter currency code (ISO 4217) of the monetary value example: USD description: Describes a money object PagingInfoRO: type: object properties: total: type: integer description: The pageable amount total format: int32 offset: type: integer description: The pageable offset format: int32 amount: type: integer description: The pageable amount format: int32 QuantityAttribute_v1: title: QuantityAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: $ref: "#/components/schemas/QuantityRO_v1" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: Quantity)" example: Quantity QuantityRO_v1: type: object properties: amount: type: number description: The amount of the quantity example: 10 unit: type: string description: The unit of the quantity example: kg description: The quantity of a business entity SlotComponentAssignmentRO: type: object properties: component: type: string visibility: $ref: "#/components/schemas/VisibilityRO" domain: type: string SlotRO: type: object properties: definitionQualifiedName: type: string content: type: array items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/SlotComponentAssignmentRO" description: List of slots assigned to the component StringAttribute_v1: title: StringAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: string description: The string value of the (custom) attribute example: stringValue type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: String)" example: String StringListAttribute_v1: title: StringListAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The string list value of the (custom) attribute example: - stringValue1 - stringValue2 items: type: string description: The string list value of the (custom) attribute example: "[\"stringValue1\",\"stringValue2\"]" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: StringList)" example: StringList LinkRO: title: Link type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of the returned element xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: "This is a constant: **Link**" readOnly: true example: Link xml: attribute: true attributes: type: array description: The list of attributes xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute" uri: type: string description: The URI relation: type: string description: The relation of the link externalDocs: description: Link Relations (www.iana.org) url: http://www.iana.org/assignments/link-relations/link-relations.xml enum: - about - alternate - appendix - archives - author - bookmark - canonical - chapter - collection - contents - copyright - create-form - current - describedby - describes - disclosure - duplicate - edit - edit-form - edit-media - enclosure - first - glossary - help - hosts - hub - icon - index - item - last - latest-version - license - lrdd - monitor - monitor-group - next - next-archive - nofollow - noreferrer - payment - predecessor-version - prefetch - prev - preview - previous - prev-archive - privacy-policy - profile - related - replies - search - section - self - service - start - stylesheet - subsection - successor-version - tag - terms-of-service - type - up - version-history - via - working-copy - working-copy-of title: type: string description: The title of the link description: type: string description: The description of the link itemId: type: string description: The ID of the linked item attribute: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute" description: A Link pointing to a resource xml: name: Link PageTreeInfoEntryRO: type: object properties: link: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LinkRO" childrenCount: type: integer format: int32 PageTreeListInfoRO: type: object properties: entries: type: array items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PageTreeInfoEntryRO" description: The optional info of the response object PageTreeListRO: type: object properties: id: type: string displayName: type: array properties: empty: type: boolean first: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" last: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" description: The core data of the response object PageTreeListResponse: type: object properties: data: type: array description: The core data of the response object items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PageTreeListRO" info: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PageTreeListInfoRO" messages: type: array description: List of messages regarding to the request (e.g. value adjustments) readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" ResourceAttribute: title: Attribute type: object properties: name: type: string description: The attribute's name xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: "This is a constant: **ResourceAttribute**" example: ResourceAttribute xml: attribute: true value: type: object description: The attribute's value. description: An attribute xml: name: ResourceAttribute PageTreeInfoRO: type: object properties: children: type: array items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PageTreeInfoEntryRO" description: The optional info of the response object PageTreeRO: type: object properties: displayName: type: array properties: empty: type: boolean first: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" last: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" description: The core data of the response object PageTreeResponse: type: object properties: id: type: string description: The ID of the response object data: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PageTreeRO" info: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PageTreeInfoRO" messages: type: array description: List of messages regarding to the request (e.g. value adjustments) readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" responses: "200": description: OK "201": description: Created "202": description: Accepted "204": description: No Content "205": description: Reset Content "206": description: Partial Content "300": description: Multiple Choices "301": description: Moved Permanently "302": description: Found "303": description: See Other "304": description: Not Modified "305": description: Use Proxy "307": description: Temporary Redirect "308": description: Permanent Redirect "400": description: Bad Request "401": description: Unauthorized "402": description: Payment Required "403": description: Forbidden "404": description: Not Found "405": description: Method Not Allowed "406": description: Not Acceptable "407": description: Proxy Authentication Required "408": description: Request Timeout "409": description: Conflict "410": description: Gone "411": description: Length Required "412": description: Precondition Failed "413": description: Request Entity Too Large "414": description: Request-URI Too Long "415": description: Unsupported Media Type "416": description: Requested Range Not Satisfiable "417": description: Expectation Failed "428": description: Precondition Required "429": description: Too Many Requests "431": description: Request Header Fields Too Large "451": description: Unavailable For Legal Reasons "500": description: Internal Server Error "501": description: Not Implemented "502": description: Bad Gateway "503": description: Service Unavailable "504": description: Gateway Timeout "505": description: HTTP Version Not Supported "511": description: Network Authentication Required parameters: loc: name: loc in: path description: "The locale ID (submitted as optional matrix parameter ```;loc=```).\ \ If omitted, the priority is as follows (from high to low): Locale ID parameter,\ \ user's default locale, site's default locale. The available locales depend\ \ on your individual Intershop Commerce Management installation. Use IANA\ \ language definitions for languages and regions and combine them using an\ \ underscore, e.g., ```en_US```." required: false style: matrix schema: type: string description: "The locale ID (submitted as optional matrix parameter ```;loc=```).\ \ If omitted, the priority is as follows (from high to low): Locale ID parameter,\ \ user's default locale, site's default locale. The available locales depend\ \ on your individual Intershop Commerce Management installation. Use IANA\ \ language definitions for languages and regions and combine them using\ \ an underscore, e.g., ```en_US```." default: en_US examples: en_US: description: English (United States) value: en_US fr_FR: description: French (France) value: fr_FR de_DE: description: German (Germany) value: de_DE x-matrixParamPath: / cur: name: cur in: path description: "The currency code (submitted as optional matrix parameter ```;cur=```).\ \ If omitted, the site's or user's default currency is used." required: false style: matrix schema: type: string description: "The currency code (submitted as optional matrix parameter ```;cur=```).\ \ If omitted, the site's or user's default currency is used." default: USD examples: FJD: description: Fiji Dollar value: FJD MXN: description: Mexican Peso value: MXN STD: description: São Tomé / Príncipe Dobra value: STD LVL: description: Latvian Lats value: LVL SCR: description: Seychelles Rupee value: SCR CDF: description: Congolese Franc value: CDF BBD: description: Barbados Dollar value: BBD GTQ: description: Guatemalan Quetzal value: GTQ CLP: description: Chilean Peso value: CLP HNL: description: Honduran Lempira value: HNL UGX: description: Ugandan Shilling value: UGX ZAR: description: South African Rand value: ZAR TND: description: Tunisian Dinar value: TND BSD: description: Bahamian Dollar value: BSD SLL: description: Sierra Leonean Leone value: SLL SDG: description: Sudanese Pound value: SDG IQD: description: Iraqi Dinar value: IQD CUP: description: Cuban Peso value: CUP GMD: description: Gambian Dalasi value: GMD TWD: description: New Taiwan Dollar value: TWD RSD: description: Serbian Dinar value: RSD ZRZ: description: Zaire value: ZRZ DOP: description: Dominican Peso value: DOP KMF: description: Comoro Franc value: KMF MYR: description: Malaysian Ringgit value: MYR FKP: description: Falkland Islands Pound value: FKP XOF: description: CFA Franc BCEAO value: XOF GEL: description: Lari value: GEL UYU: description: Uruguayan Peso value: UYU MAD: description: Moroccan Dirham value: MAD CVE: description: Cape Verde Escudo value: CVE TOP: description: Tongan Pa'anga value: TOP AZN: description: Azerbaijanian Manat value: AZN OMR: description: Omani Rial value: OMR PGK: description: Papua New Guinean Kina value: PGK KES: description: Kenyan Shilling value: KES SEK: description: Swedish Krona value: SEK BTN: description: Ngultrum value: BTN UAH: description: Ukrainian Hryvnia value: UAH GNF: description: Guinea Franc value: GNF ERN: description: Nakfa value: ERN MZN: description: Mozambican Metical value: MZN SVC: description: Salvadoran Colón value: SVC ARS: description: Argentine Peso value: ARS QAR: description: Qatari Riyal value: QAR IRR: description: Iranian Rial value: IRR NLG: description: Dutch Guilder value: NLG MRO: description: Mauritanian Ouguiya value: MRO CNY: description: Yuan Renminbi value: CNY THB: description: Thai Baht value: THB UZS: description: Uzbekistani Som value: UZS XPF: description: CFP Franc value: XPF BDT: description: Bangladeshi Taka value: BDT LYD: description: Libyan Dinar value: LYD BMD: description: Bermudian Dollar value: BMD KWD: description: Kuwaiti Dinar value: KWD PHP: description: Philippine Peso value: PHP RUB: description: Russian Ruble value: RUB PYG: description: Paraguayan Guarani value: PYG ISK: description: Iceland Krona value: ISK JMD: description: Jamaican Dollar value: JMD GWP: description: Guinea Peso value: GWP BEF: description: Belgian Franc value: BEF ESP: description: Spanish Peseta value: ESP COP: description: Colombian Peso value: COP MKD: description: Denar value: MKD USD: description: US Dollar value: USD DZD: description: Algerian Dinar value: DZD PAB: description: Panamanian Balboa value: PAB SGD: description: Singapore Dollar value: SGD ETB: description: Ethiopian Birr value: ETB KGS: description: Som value: KGS SOS: description: Somali Shilling value: SOS VEF: description: Venezuelan Bolivar Fuerte value: VEF VUV: description: Vanuatu Vatu value: VUV LAK: description: Lao Kip value: LAK BND: description: Brunei Dollar value: BND ZMK: description: Zambian Kwacha value: ZMK XAF: description: CFA Franc BEAC value: XAF LRD: description: Liberian Dollar value: LRD ATS: description: Austrian Schilling value: ATS CHF: description: Swiss Franc value: CHF HRK: description: Croatian Kuna value: HRK ITL: description: Italian Lira value: ITL ALL: description: Albanian Lek value: ALL DJF: description: Djibouti Franc value: DJF MTL: description: Maltese Lira value: MTL TZS: description: Tanzanian Shilling value: TZS VND: description: Vietnamese Dong value: VND AUD: description: Australian Dollar value: AUD ILS: description: New Israeli Sheqel value: ILS GHS: description: Ghanaian Cedi value: GHS GYD: description: Guyanese Dollar value: GYD KPW: description: North Korean Won value: KPW BOB: description: Boliviano value: BOB KHR: description: Cambodian Riel value: KHR MDL: description: Moldovan Leu value: MDL IDR: description: Indonesian Rupiah value: IDR KYD: description: Cayman Islands Dollar value: KYD AMD: description: Armenian Dram value: AMD BWP: description: Botswana Pula value: BWP SHP: description: Saint Helena Pound value: SHP TRY: description: Turkish Lira value: TRY CYP: description: Cyprus Pound value: CYP LBP: description: Lebanese Pound value: LBP TJS: description: Tajikistani Somoni value: TJS JOD: description: Jordanian Dinar value: JOD AED: description: United Arab Emirates Dirham value: AED HKD: description: Hong Kong Dollar value: HKD RWF: description: Rwanda Franc value: RWF EUR: description: Euro value: EUR LSL: description: Lesotho Loti value: LSL DKK: description: Danish Krone value: DKK CAD: description: Canadian Dollar value: CAD BGN: description: Bulgarian Lev value: BGN EEK: description: Estonian Kroon value: EEK MMK: description: Kyat value: MMK MUR: description: Mauritian Rupee value: MUR NOK: description: Norwegian Krone value: NOK SYP: description: Syrian Pound value: SYP ZWL: description: Zimbabwean Dollar value: ZWL GIP: description: Gibraltar Pound value: GIP RON: description: Romanian New Leu value: RON LKR: description: Sri Lankan Rupee value: LKR NGN: description: Nigerian Naira value: NGN CRC: description: Costa Rican Colon value: CRC CZK: description: Czech Koruna value: CZK IEP: description: Irish Pound value: IEP PKR: description: Pakistani Rupee value: PKR GRD: description: Greek Drachma value: GRD XCD: description: East Carribean Dollar value: XCD ANG: description: Netherlands Antillian Guilder value: ANG HTG: description: Haitian Gourde value: HTG BHD: description: Bahraini Dinar value: BHD SIT: description: Slovenian Tolar value: SIT PTE: description: Portuguese Escudo value: PTE BPP: description: Bonus Point Price value: BPP KZT: description: Kazakhstani Tenge value: KZT SRD: description: Surinam Dollar value: SRD SZL: description: Swazi Lilangeni value: SZL LTL: description: Lithuanian Litas value: LTL SAR: description: Saudi Riyal value: SAR TTD: description: Trinidad and Tobago Dollar value: TTD YER: description: Yemeni Rial value: YER MVR: description: Maldivian Rufiyaa value: MVR AFN: description: Afghani value: AFN BPV: description: Bonus Point Value value: BPV INR: description: Indian Rupee value: INR AWG: description: Aruban Florin value: AWG KRW: description: South Korean Won value: KRW NPR: description: Nepalese Rupee value: NPR JPY: description: Japanese Yen value: JPY MNT: description: Mongolian Tugrik value: MNT AOA: description: Angolan Kwanza value: AOA PLN: description: Polish Złoty value: PLN GBP: description: Pound Sterling value: GBP SBD: description: Solomon Islands Dollar value: SBD HUF: description: Hungarian Forint value: HUF BYR: description: Belarussian Ruble value: BYR LUF: description: Luxembourgian Franc value: LUF BIF: description: Burundi Franc value: BIF MWK: description: Malawian Kwacha value: MWK MGA: description: Malagasy Ariary value: MGA FIM: description: Finnish Mark value: FIM BZD: description: Belize Dollar value: BZD DEM: description: Deutsche Mark value: DEM BAM: description: Convertible Marks value: BAM EGP: description: Egyptian Pound value: EGP MOP: description: Macanese Pataca value: MOP NAD: description: Namibian Dollar value: NAD SKK: description: Slovakian Krona value: SKK NIO: description: Cordoba Oro value: NIO PEN: description: Peruvian Nuevo Sol value: PEN NZD: description: New Zealand Dollar value: NZD WST: description: Samoan Tala value: WST TMT: description: Turkmenistani Manat value: TMT FRF: description: French Franc value: FRF BRL: description: Brazilian Real value: BRL x-matrixParamPath: / regionals: name: regionals in: path required: false style: matrix schema: type: object properties: loc: type: string description: The locale ID example: en_US cur: type: string description: The currency code example: EUR x-matrixParamPath: / pgid: name: pgid in: path description: "The personalization group identifier, submitted as matrix parameter\ \ ```;pgid=```. Required if you want to work with customer-specific\ \ content." required: false style: matrix schema: type: string description: "The personalization group identifier, submitted as matrix parameter\ \ ```;pgid=```. Required if you want to work with customer-specific\ \ content." example: FUOGrzQ_VjORpGaN8DRGmLLE0000 example: FUOGrzQ_VjORpGaN8DRGmLLE0000 spgid: name: spgid in: path description: "The secure personalization group identifier, submitted as matrix\ \ parameter ```;spgid=```. Required if you want to work with customer-specific\ \ content." required: false style: matrix schema: type: string description: "The secure personalization group identifier, submitted as matrix\ \ parameter ```;spgid=```. Required if you want to work with customer-specific\ \ content." example: FUOGrzQ_VjORpGaN8DRGmLLE0000 example: FUOGrzQ_VjORpGaN8DRGmLLE0000 securitySchemes: bearerAuth: type: http description: "Bearer token authentication. A request contains a header field\ \ in the form of authorization: ```Bearer ```, where is a string\ \ generated by an authentication service in response to a login request." scheme: bearer bearerFormat: JWT basicAuth: type: http description: "Basic access authentication. In basic authentication, a request\ \ contains a header field in the form of authorization: ```Basic ```,\ \ where credentials is the Base64 encoding of ID and password joined by a\ \ single colon :." scheme: basic authToken: type: apiKey description: User authentication token to authenticate the request. The token is a string generated by the ICM server in the same header in every response of an REST endpoint. name: authentication-token in: header x-origin-class: "com.intershop.component.rest.capi.resource.RootResource,com.intershop.application.pmc.capi.resource.CmsParentResource" x-apiID: cms_management_v100

[Open ReDoc-rendered Open API documentation in separate window.](https://knowledge.intershop.com/rdd/Redoc-4557M1.html)

## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.