---
id: 'ab2b05eb8347d8aefc3336075e7e5366'
title: 'Video Tutorial - Intershop Studio (IStudio) Part 1'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/U28479'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:38:39.959869+00:00'
---
Info

This document replaces the outdated article with the ID 2557E4 and the same title.

The Intershop Studio, based on Eclipse, is the main development tool for the Intershop 7 platform. It offers an IDE for all development relevant tasks and assets like cartridges, pipelines, templates, pagelets, queries, and many more. This video tutorial is part 1 of 3 and covers the introduction and configuration of Intershop Studio.

Intershop Studio allows you to customize code for your application to meet business requirements and processes.

The tutorial series contains several topics like:

Info

Additionally to this tutorial, you can follow the tutorial tasks in the Guidance section below the video.

*
*

The Intershop Studio can be downloaded here: [Product - Intershop Studio 4](https://knowledge.intershop.com/prd/index.php/Product/41762aa5-2396-11e9-a617-0050568a6a29).

Only verified and named contacts are authorized to download the Intershop Studio.

Open the *IntershopStudio.exe* file in the *IntershopStudio* directory.

Your own workspace with individual settings will be created automatically.

Select the *intershop.properties* file under *Server Configuration*.

The *intershop.properties* defines some properties of the Intershop server and can also be found there in the $IS_HOME directory. The Intershop Studio is designed to develop a project-specific Intershop server. A previously set up standard Intershop server in the development environment is, therefore, mandatory.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.