---
id: 'ab9b909460afadc162e83ef572f2839e'
title: 'Concept - Intershop Commerce Platform DevOps'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/L29890'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:36:39.773045+00:00'
---
This document describes permissions and responsibilities for accessing and deploying Intershop Commerce Platform projects.

Note

The focus lies on post-go-live deployments. Deployments during the project phase are briefly mentioned at the end of this guide.

| Term | Description |
|---|---|
| DEV | Development Team |
| ICM | Intershop Commerce Management |
| INT | Integration environment |
| IOM | Intershop Order Management |
| OPS | Operations |
| PRD | Production environment |
| PWA | Progressive Web App |
| UAT | User acceptance test environment |

The following table lists responsibilities for deployments:

| Application/Module | INT | UAT | PRD |
|---|---|---|---|
| Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) | OPS/DEV | OPS/DEV | OPS1/DEV2 |
| Intershop Progressive Web App (PWA) | OPS/DEV | OPS/DEV | OPS |
| Intershop Order Management (IOM) | DEV | DEV | OPS |

1 Both, code and full deployments

2 Code deployment only

For details, refer to [Guide - Intershop Commerce Platform Deployment Process (valid to 7.10) | Deployment Types](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1925218344#Guide-IntershopCommercePlatformDeploymentProcess(validto7.10)-dpl-types).

The following table on this page summarizes the access rights and restrictions for Intershop Commerce Platform projects:

| Application/Service | Subsection | Environment | Notes | ||
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| INT | UAT | PRD | |||
| ICM | Storefront | OPS/DEV/CUSTOMER | |||
| Organizational Backoffice | (OPS)/DEV/CUSTOMER | ||||
| Operations Backoffice | OPS/DEV | OPS/DEV | See
|

OPS/DEV **(new)**

Jenkins

DB Credentials

1 The DB credentials for INT can be found in the orm.properties file. UAT (or any other NonPRD environments) DB credentials may be requested via service desk ticket on demand.

The connection to any NonPRD DB will be done via SSH connection to INT environment (app server). For further details see here: [Guide - Intershop Commerce Platform Database Handling \ Connect To SQL Database](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1896934738/Guide+-+Intershop+Commerce+Platform+Database+Handling#Guide-IntershopCommercePlatformDatabaseHandling-IntershopCommercePlatformDatabaseHandling-ConnecttoSQLDatabase)

Newly introduced access options are marked accordingly.

For existing Intershop Commerce Platform projects, you can request the new access options via a ticket. Please name the main technical contact when creating a ticket.

A main contact person (e.g., DEV lead engineer) of the implementation partner receives a dedicated user with appropriate authorizations. If required, this user may create additional users (maximum of three users).

Determinations:

Taking action and making changes in the PRD operations back office may have a serious impact on the environment. Service failures caused by the implementation partner are the responsibility of the implementation partner and must be reported immediately. For reasons of traceability, user auditing is activated.

A main contact person (e.g. DEV lead engineer) of the implementation partner receives a dedicated user with appropriate authorizations. If required, he may create additional users (maximum of 3 users).

Determinations:

Taking action and making changes in the PRD SMC may have a serious impact on the environment. Service failures caused by the implementation partner are the responsibility of the implementation partner and must be reported immediately. For reasons of traceability, user auditing is activated.

The following must be considered when using the SMC:

Be careful with file downloads in SMC. The file browser should be used to download individual files only. The ZIP file feature should not be used.

No logging adjustments should be made.

No adjustments to the performance monitoring should be made.

No thread or heap dumps should be created.

During the setup phase, before the shop is live, the changes on PRD are lot less critical. For this reason, the access to PRD for DEV is at that point similar to those on UAT. It means full access to Operations back office and System Management Console.

The switch between the access rights during the setup phase and those described above takes place at the end of the hyper care phase.

Intershop wants the best possible security for all components for a customer solution. Therefore, the sources and the build process as well as the build results must be located on the Intershop platform in the controlled Azure DevOps environment. It is not possible to operate container images, built outside of this environment.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.