---
id: 'ae517369046b0e8221d988abccc90392'
title: 'Importing Promotion Codes'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/T32600'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:19.907808+00:00'
---
# Importing Promotion Codes

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Marketing | Import & Export.
This displays the Promotion Import & Export manager.
-
Upload the file to be imported.
For details, see
[Uploading Promotions for Import](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/online_marketing/task_uploading_import_files2.html). -
In the Promotion Codes (CSV) section of the Import & Export Manager, click Import.
Attributes describing the import data and a list of files previously uploaded is displayed.
-
Specify attributes according to your import data.
See the following table for details:
Table 1. Promotion Code Import Data Attributes Attribute Description Mapping Template For importing promotion codes, select the PromotionCodeCSVConvert.isml template. Field Delimiter The character used to separate the field values in each record line. Since promotion codes have only one field per record, not really relevant here. Format Line Number Specify the number of format lines at the top of the import file. Custom Format Line Allows you to specify a custom format line. -
Select the radio button next to the import file you wish to import, then click Next.
The import file is now validated and the number of promotion codes found in the file is displayed. In case of errors, an according log message is generated that you can review.
-
Click Next.
A list of available promotion code groups is shown.
-
Select a promotion code group, then click Next.
The import process will operate on a single promotion code group, choose the one you want to modify.
-
Select an import mode.
For importing promotion codes, the import modes INITIAL and DELETE are available. For import mode details, see
[Standard Import Modes](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/concept_catalog_import_and_export.html#con_cat_impex_modes). -
Click Import.
The import process starts and a status message is displayed when the import process is finished.