---
id: 'ae65be49aba4c60293b6018e8757fc13'
title: 'Reference'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/306C45'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:39:00.393804+00:00'
---
Introduction | The *Dispatch Capture and Validation Process* captures a dispatch notification from 3rd party systems, e.g. fulfillment locations. It validates the dispatch to ensure data integrity and announces it to the related order. |
Boundaries | The *Dispatch Capture and Validation Process* starts with an INITIAL dispatch notification captured by the standard API and ends normally with a dispatch that is successfully validated. The process ends by reaching one of the statuses CHECKED or NOT_CHECKED. Refer to [IOM Dispatch Status Model](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48093102111/IOM+Dispatch+Status+Model). |
Process Flow | **Receive and store dispatch notification**. The fulfillment location passed a dispatch notification. The status of the dispatch notification is set to INITAL.
**Assign order to order dispatch notification** links the order to the dispatch notification. The shop order number will be added if missing in the dispatch notification.
OK: The matching is successful and the process continues. FAILED: No matching order is found for the dispatch notification. Initiate the escalation workflow to handle the error.
**Unprocessed dispatch notifications available? **Checks for unprocessed dispatch notifications for the order.
YES: The dispatch notification is set to a wait status until “older” dispatch notifications are processed. NO: There are no “older” dispatch notifications and the process continues.
**Prepare dispatch and add missing data** completes missing data in dispatch using the related order. This involves:
Adding missing IOM product ID to the dispatch notification. Adding missing the order position number to the dispatch notification. In case no position number can be determined, these positions will not be processed.
**Validate dispatch**.** **The dispatch is validated according to the defined dispatch validation rules.
OK: The dispatch has been successfully validated and the process continues. The status of the dispatch will be set to CHECKED. FAILED: The validation detects errors (e.g. required fields are missing). Initiate the escalation workflow to handle the error.
**Set dispatch NOT_CHECKED**.** **The status of the dispatch notification is set to NOT_CHECKED to indicate an error. Dispatch notifications in status NOT_CHECKED will be ignored until the status is changed to CHECKED.
**Announce dispatch to order**. The dispatch notification in status DO_PROCESS is announced to the order. Selected information of the dispatch notification (quantity and date) is copied to the corresponding order positions. The data `supplierConfirmedPurchaseItemNet ` is only copied if no confirmed purchase price has been provided in the response notification because the fulfillment location has accepted the order with the prices provided in the order response notification. If the order position is partly dispatched, the order position status is set to one of the following statuses (source status → target status):
COMMISSIONED → COMMISSIONED_PARTLY_DISPATCHED COMMISSIONED_PARTLY_RETURNED → COMMISSIONED_PARTLY_DISPATCHED_PARTLY_RETURNED If the order position is completely dispatched, the order position status is set to one of the following statuses (source status → target status): COMMISSIONED or COMMISSIONED_PARTLY_DISPATCHED → DISPATCHED COMMISSIONED_PARTLY_RETURNED or COMMISSIONED_PARTLY_DISPATCHED_PARTLY_RETURNED → DISPATCHED_PARTLY_RETURNED If the status change fails because the order position is not in one of the mentioned statuses, the announcement process fails and the order dispatch notification is set to status NOT_ANNOUNCED.
**Outstanding recalls or backlog requests available?** Checks if there are outstanding order recall or order backlog requests.
YES: There are outstanding order recall or backlog requests. NO: No open recall or backlog requests are available.
**Cancel recall and order backlog requests**.** **Recall and backlog requests are canceled because the requested products have been already delivered by the fulfillment location.
**Open responses for dispatched positions available? **Checks if open response notifications in status NOT_CHECKED, NOT_CHECKED_DO_APPROVE or IN_EXTERNAL_PROSSING are available.
YES: There are open response notifications. NO: There are no open response notifications are available.
**Set open responses to FAILED**
**Set dispatch DO_PROCESS**
|
Exceptions | In case of exceptions, the processing stops and the errors must be solved. After the errors have been solved, the process is continued automatically by the control app. |
More | Extension points Queues: CheckDispatchQueue Statuses: INITIAL, NOT_CHECKED, NOT_CHECKED_DO_APPROVE, IN_EXTERNAL_PROCESSING, CHECKED, FAILED (refer to [IOM Dispatch Status Model](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48093102111/IOM+Dispatch+Status+Model))
Related processes |