---
id: 'aefe193520220b55fa5d0a0502ee9671'
title: 'Creating a New Recommendation Data Feed Configuration'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32D569'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:22.370726+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/32D569

# Creating a New Recommendation Data Feed Configuration

To create a new configuration for a recommendation data feed:
-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Marketing | Recommendations - Data Feeds.
This displays a list of all feed configurations that are currently available.

-
Click New.
The General page of the new configuration is displayed.

-
Provide general information as required.
Mandatory information includes name and ID for the new configuration. Optionally, a description can be provided. Select or deselect the Enabled check box to enable or disable the configuration, respectively.

-
Specify the data feed type.
Depending on the integrated recommendation services, different feed types may be available. Select the type for the intended service from the drop-down list.

-
Click Apply.
The new configuration is created, and the Parameters section is displayed.

-
Specify the parameters as required.
The table below lists the additional parameters.

Table 1. Recommendation Data Feed Parameters
| Parameter |
Description |
| Currency |
Specifies the currency to be included with the issued product data. |
| Save Order Data |
Specifies whether to include order data. If so, define the period to be considered for retrieving the order data. |

-
Click Apply to save your settings.
Otherwise, click Reset to discard your changes.


## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.