---
id: 'b00d2e64caa8d11008adf1a6f5c83a0f'
title: 'Public Release Note'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2A9304'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:37.426552+00:00'
---
The Solr4 Search Service Adapter is the legacy search service adapter to connect ICM to a Solr4.8 search server. This adapter was part of the ICM up to version 7.10.16.6.

Intershop Commerce Management | Solr4 Search Service Adapter | Solr Server | Intershop Solr Server Component (com.intershop:solr4war) |
|---|---|---|---|
7.10.16.6 - 7.10.30.x | 29.0.4 | 4.8+ | 1.0.2 |

The following table lists the cartridges contained in the Solr Adapter:

Cartridge | Description | |
|---|---|---|
ac_search_solr | The main implementation cartridge of the adapter defining and registering the search service. | |
ac_search_solr_bo | Additional functionality for the Commerce Management application. It provides additional configuration options for the index management, especially for suggest and spell-check. | |
solr4_config | Configuration container with Solr configuration for deployment only. |

The cartridges of the adapter and the Solr server can be deployed by adapting the assembly according to [Cookbook - Deployment of Solr Search Adapters | Continue to Use Solr4 Adapter](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1880264943/Cookbook+-+Deployment+of+Solr+Search+Adapters#Cookbook-DeploymentofSolrSearchAdapters-ContinueToUseSolr4Adapter).

Key | Summary |
|---|---|
| |
|

Key | Summary |
|---|---|
| |
|

Initial release of the adapter with the code state previously included in ICM prior to 7.10.16.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.