---
id: 'b22422225bbf239eeb5b0fa0064d0eb3'
title: 'Public Release Note'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/296D91'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:36:46.640039+00:00'
---
The IOM Connector is a set of cartridges that allows data exchange and communication between Intershop Commerce Management and Intershop Order Management. It is an extension (or "service") module for the Intershop Commerce Management. As such, it requires a base version against which it can be deployed. The table below describes the version dependencies between those entities.

| IOM Connector | Intershop Commerce Management B2X | Intershop Order Management | |
|---|---|---|---|
| Version | 6.4 | 7.10.20.1 - 7.10.30.* | 3.0+ |

Below you can find some general information about the IOM Connector - both technical and business information.

In a nutshell, Intershop set up with IOM Connector affects the following:

Intershop Commerce Management B2X features such as order approval or additional order information are fully compatible with the IOM Connector. Orders will be exported to IOM only if the corresponding approval processes are completed. In addition, any information stored to the order - such as message to merchant, cost center and project - will be exported as well.

As with any Intershop feature that connects ICM to another system, all features are realized using the Managed Services framework.

Intershop recommends to create and manage the IOM Services in the context of channels.

| Term | Description |
|---|---|
| ICM | The abbreviation for Intershop Commerce Management |
| IOM | The abbreviation for Intershop Order Management |

The component set *f_iomconnector* (IOM Connector) contains the following cartridges:

Of these cartridges, the following are delivered as source files (while the rest is delivered via the artifact repository):

There are also a few test and development cartridges.

The IOM Connector is set up alongside a standard ICM installation. It adds additional cartridges that define the following managed services:


Both ICM and IOM follow the same hierarchical concept of organizations that have expandable entities. These entities differ, however. In ICM one *sales organization *may have multiple *channels*, while in IOM one *sales organization *may have multiple *shop*s.

Intershop recommends to consider *channel*s and *shops *as synonyms in the context of this document and your setup. Although not the same, they are in close relation to each other.

As mentioned before, a couple of IOM Services, although not mandatory, are created in the context of a channel. This way you can ensure that the communication exchange between ICM and IOM is realized on the intended level.

The services mentioned in the previous chapter are realized with web services. They exchange data between the two systems in a specific format, but they also need to be configured. Web services require an *end point* that is different for each of them. In the table below you can see the end points, with IOM server host/address shown as a placeholder.

| Service | End Point |
|---|---|
| IOM Order Service | https://<iom-host>/webservices/OrderService/v1.2 |
| IOM Order State Service | https://<iom-host>/webservices/OrderStateService/v1.0 |
| IOM Download Service | https://<iom-host>/webservices/DownloadService/v1.0 |
| IOM Reverse Service | https://<iom-host>/webservices/ReverseService/v1.0 |
| IOM RMA Service | https://<iom-host>/rest/rma |
| IOM Inventory Service | https://<iom-host>/servlets/services/ |
| IOM Order Export Service | https://<iom-host>/rest/order-service |
| IOM Order History Service | https://<iom-host>/rest/order-service |

When doing the configuration mentioned in the step above, you must also specify a shop. Usually, a channel in ICM represents a shop in IOM.

Consumers of the services must authorize themselves to IOM before any data is processed - either as input or output. To realize this, you must create a user in IOM with permissions necessary for the operations performed by the service. An easy way to ensure this is to assign the `ShopServiceClient`

role to the corresponding user. However, you may fine-tune the permissions for each service as they need a username/password combination.

Should you use prepared demo data, consider these prepared values:

| Consumer Web-Service | consumer_ws |
|---|---|
| Company | inSPIRED |
| Shop(s) | inTRONICS |
| inTRONICS Business |

Both systems exchange data, so they need a common ground as a base for this communication. The following table shows the mappings between IOM and ICM:

| Identifier | ICM | IOM |
|---|---|---|
| Product | Channel's product SKU | Shop product ID |
| Customer | Customer No. | Shop customer number |
| Order | Order document No. | Shop order number |

These identifiers must be identical for each item in both systems. For example, if an order with a line item that has the SKU *00910* is placed and is then exported to IOM, the web services layer will report an error if the product with this product ID is not present in IOM.

The IOM Connector provides instruments that route any order placed from ICM to IOM. To use this feature, you must configure the order export, see [Configure Order Export](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1821711350#Guide-ICMandIOMConfigurationTasks(validto2.17)-ConfigureOrderExport), which depends on an existing service configuration, see [Configure IOM Order Service](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1821711350#Guide-ICMandIOMConfigurationTasks(validto2.17)-ConfigureIOMOrderService). As mentioned before, on the configuration page you may tweak the export settings, but we generally use *on order creation* as trigger.

The look and feel and the business processes in the standard ICM is not altered in any way, but placed orders are routed to IOM.

**Order Confirmation in ICM**

**Order Details in IOM**

Order approval and additional order information works out of the box with order export to the IOM. Orders are exported to the IOM once they are approved by the responsible user(s) in the customer's organization. All approval and additional information details are exported to IOM upon order placement. They are accessible in the *Attributes* section.

The table below lists the mapping of data exchanged between ICM and IOM.

| ICM | IOM |
|---|---|
| Order Details | |
| Order Document Number | Shop Order Number |
| Creation Date | Shop Order Creation Date |
| InventoryReservationId (Custom Attribute) | Reservation ID |
| Custom Attributes | Additional Attributes |
| Invoice & Shipping Address | |
| Location | |
| Country Code | Country Code |
| Main Division | District |
| Postal Code | Post Code |
| City | City |
| Address Line 1 | Street |
| Address Line 2 | Address Addition |
| Address Line 3 | Address Addition |
| Post Box | Post Box |
| Contact | |
| Phone Home | Phone |
| Fax | Fax |
| Phone Mobile | Mobile |
| Receiver | |
| Company Name 1 | Company Name |
| Person | |
| Honorific | Title |
| Title | Salutation |
| First Name | First Name |
| Last Name | Last Name |
| Shipping Bucket | |
| Order Shipping Method ID | Shipping Method |
| Custom Attributes | Additional Attributes |
| Shipping Costs / Surcharges | Charges |
| Line Item Information | |
| Position | Number |
| Quantity | Quantity |
| Quantity Unit | Product Unit |
| Custom Attributes | Additional Attributes |
| Product Information | |
| SKU | Number |
| Display Name | Name |
| EANCode (Custom Attribute) | EAN |
| ISBN (Custom Attribute) | ISBN |
| Price Information | |
| (specific) Net price | Net |
| (specific) Gross Price | Gross |
| Tax Information | |
| Amount | Amount |
| Tax Class | Type |
| Payment Information | |
| Payment Service ID | Payment Method |

Note

Shipping and carriers are different in their nature. While the sales channels in ICM have shipping methods which are selectable by the customers, IOM has carriers listed that execute those shipping methods. For example, in the ICM one might have two shipping methods, *DHL Express* and *DHL Standard,* both of which are covered by single carrier *DHL*.

Mapping the payment attributes supported by *IOM* (`PaymentProviderOrderNo`

, `PaymentProviderRefNo `

and `PaymentProviderMerchantAccount`

) highly depends on the specific payment service implementations. Therefore it is not possible to provide a default payment mapping that covers all payment services. Instead, custom mappers can be integrated into the order export process via the extension point: `type = IOMConnectorPaymentMappingExtension.class, id = "OrderMapper.bindPayment".`


This feature is governed by the *IOM Order History Service. *Once this service is configured and activated, the order status information in *My Account | Order History *is provided by the IOM in real time. In order to reduce the number of internal requests between the system, it supports the caching of the results for a short time interval (few seconds).

**My Account | Order History**

**Order Details | Carrier Tracking Information**

** **

**Orders of a Customer in IOM**

** **

Real time means that order statuses are updated the moment they are updated in the IOM. Thus, any action taken in IOM, for example *Confirmation of delivery*, will be shown in the ICM as soon as someone requests the *Order History*. The table below lists the mapping between order statuses in the two systems.

| Intershop Commerce Management | Intershop Order Management |
|---|---|
| initial order | INITIAL |
| in validation | CHECKED NOT_CHECKED |
| canceled | CANCELED NOT_CHECKED_DO_CANCEL |
| checked | CHECKED |
| approval required | ORDER_APPROVAL_REQUIRED DEPRECATED (from the IOM version 2.15) |
| in approval | DO_CREATE_APPROVALTRANSMISSION DEPRECATED (from the IOM version 2.15) CREATED_APPROVALTRANSMISSION DEPRECATED (from the IOM version 2.15) CHECK_ANNOUNCED |
| waiting for approval | DO_APPROVE |
| not approved | NOT_APPROVED |
| approved | APPROVED |
| assigning supplier | DO_ANNOUNCE |
| will be canceled | NOT_ANNOUNCED |
| assignment failed | NOT_ANNOUNCED_DO_CANCEL |
| suppliers assigned | ANNOUNCED |
| optimising supplier | DO_OPTIMIZE |
| optimised | OPTIMIZED |
| prepare response | DO_PREPARE_RESPONSE |
| prepare documents | DO_PREPARE_DOCUMENT |
| documents prepared | PREPARED_DOCUMENT |
| ready to transmit | DO_CREATE_TRANSMISSION |
| waiting for transmission | WAIT_FOR_TRANSMIT |
| order transmission | CREATED_TRANSMISSION |
| reservation commissioned | RESERVATED |
| partly canceled | RESERVATION_PARTLY_RETURNED |
| partly commissioned | PARTLY_COMMISSIONED |
| partly shipped | PARTLY_COMMISSIONED_PARTLY_DISPATCHED COMMISSIONED_PARTLY_DISPATCHED |
| partly returned | PARTLY_COMMISSIONED_PARTLY_RETURNED PARTLY_COMMISSIONED_PARTLY_DISPATCHED_PARTLY_RETURNED COMMISSIONED_PARTLY_DISPATCHED_PARTLY_RETURNED DISPATCHED_PARTLY_RETURNED |
| transmitted | COMMISSIONED |
| partly canceled/returned | COMMISSIONED_PARTLY_RETURNED |
| shipped | DISPATCHED |
| returned | RETURNED |
| canceled | CANCELED |
| Export failed | order transfer to IOM system failed |

For more information on the IOM order status models see [IOM Order Status Model](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1884973831/IOM+Order+Status+Model).

The current status of the payment is very important for our customers. After an order is submitted, you can see information details in the *Order History* section. Click on *view* to show the *Order Details* page with the *Payment* panel. This panel contains information about the payment status (Paid, Part Paid, Not Paid) and a progress bar:

| Paid | The order is completely paid. |
| Part Paid | The order is partially paid. |
| Not Paid | The order is not paid. |

The progress bar shows what percentage of the order is already paid. The total amount of money to be paid can be seen in the line *Open Invoiced Amount*. If an order is completely paid, the customer sees a green progress bar showing 100%, and the line *Open Invoiced Amount* states $ 0.

**My Account | Order History | View**

**Order Invoice in IOM**

Customers are able to trigger returns of orders. Once the order is shipped, and its delivery confirmation is tracked in the IOM, its status is changed to shipped. From the *Order History* page every order that has been shipped can be triggered for return by clicking the *Return Items *button. For each individual item, a return quantity and a reason can be specified. Return reasons are requested from the IOM. For convenience, the ICM provides a drop-down list to select a return reason.

The list of existing return requests for an order can be viewed from the *Order History* page by using the *View Returns* button. The list contains the current processing status of the request and some general information.

Note

**Activate Service**

The* IOM RMA Service* needs to be configured and activated to use the *Order Return* feature.

Once a return request was approved and the return slip has been generated in the IOM or in the *My Account* section, it can be downloaded from the link shown on the *Order History* page of the order.

Note

**Activate Service**

Printing return slips directly in the *My Account* section is currently only supported with the *IOM Reverse Service*. The *IOM RMA Service* currently does not have this feature.

To be able to download return documents, the* IOM Download Service *needs to be configured and active.

This feature allows to display attached documents (notes / information) on the *Order Details* page. The *Order Document* retrieval from the IOM has a cache handling mechanism that preserves the information for a given time interval. The ICM's *Order Details* page render process requests the IOM to report the number of documents attached to the very order. The badge on the right hand side of the *View All* link indicates the number of documents. Click *View All* to display a list of documents. The list shows information such as note type (invoice, credit , etc.), note creation date/time and a link for the document download.

Note

Information about an order's documents are also available via the IOM Connector REST API. For more detailed information please refer to:

The main task of the *Inventory Service* is to check the product availability status for a particular product in the IOM. IOM *Inventory Service* works in real time, but at the same time it supports the caching of the results for a given time interval (e.g., 5 seconds). When the page with the customer's desired product is open, the *Inventory Service* requests the IOM for an ATP (available to promise) status. If the product is available, the customer will see the button *Add to Cart* and a field to specify the desired quantity of the product. On the other hand, if the product is not available, a button with the text *Notify me when available* appears. Ensure to mark the checkbox *Availability check on failure* in the service configuration to guarantee that the product availability will be at least checked in the local database, in case of a communication problem with the IOM system.


Note

**Deactivate SimpleInventoryService**

The SimpleInventoryService has to be deactivated if IOM Inventory Service should be used.

[2017-09-27 10:41:31.362 +0100] ERROR localhost ES2 appserver0 [inSPIRED-inTRONICS_Business-Site] [-] com.intershop.component.mvc.internal.inventory.InventoryServiceResolverImpl [] [Storefront] [-igcxxhSVC0cx0GZqycdxxgt17cb0TXN_T4xWB9E] [ESIFAFnLcgUBAAB_-1-07] "ESIFAFnLcgUBAAB_-1-07" Only one adapter allowed to be executable of InventoryService, but 2 adapters found. System Information

The IOM Connector release package is available via Intershop's public Artifactory server. To add it to your release, the following preconditions must be met:

Set up and configure the CI (continuous integration) environment.

Refer to [Cookbook - Setup CI Infrastructure](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822571078/Cookbook+-+Setup+CI+Infrastructure) and to [Concept - Continuous Delivery Tools (valid to 7.10)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1784317189) for basic information about Continuous Integration.

Install Intershop Commerce Management matching the system requirements - see section [Dependency Version Information](https://knowledge.intershop.com#PublicReleaseNote-IOMConnector6.4-DependencyVersionInformation).

Knowledge of how to deploy to a test or production environment is required. The IOM Connector contains parts that are distributed as binary artifacts (see `iomConnectorCartridges`

and `iomConnectorInitCartridges`

in the code example of the section [IOM Connector 6.4 - Setup | Configure the Assembly](https://knowledge.intershop.com#IOMConnector6.4-Setup-ConfiguretheAssembly)) and parts that are distributed as source (see `iomConnectorSourceCartridges`

and `iomConnectorSourceInitCartridges`

in the code example), so they can be copied and modified easily in a project.

Several IOM connector cartridges are delivered as source files. These need to be included in the project's component set and adapted manually to work in the project context:

Download the IOM Connector multi-project source package *com.intershop.public.source.f_iomconnector* from the repository. Select the version that you want to use.* *

Unzip and copy the contents to your component set directory. The demo assembly *inspired-iomconnector* does not need to be extracted.

On Windows certain tools have trouble dealing with path names longer than 255 characters. When in doubt, please use 7-Zip to uncompress the source packages.

Change the *build.gradle* file of the extracted cartridges to reference the connector libraries from the repository and local dependencies from your component set.

| Cartridge | Reference to Change | New Line |
|---|---|---|
`app_sf_responsive_carriertracking` | `compile project(':ac_iomconnector_order')` | `compile group: 'com.intershop.services.iomconnector', name: 'ac_iomconnector_order'` |
`as_iomconnector` | `compile project(':ac_iomconnector_common')` | `compile group: 'com.intershop.services.iomconnector', name: 'ac_iomconnector_common'` |
`compile project(':ac_iomconnector_order')` | `compile group: 'com.intershop.services.iomconnector', name: 'ac_iomconnector_order'` | |
`compile project(':ac_iomconnector_orderexport')` | `compile group: 'com.intershop.services.iomconnector', name: 'ac_iomconnector_orderexport'` | |
`compile project(':ac_iomconnector_orderexport_b2b')` | `compile group: 'com.intershop.services.iomconnector', name: 'ac_iomconnector_orderexport_b2b'` | |
`compile project(':ac_iomconnector_orderhistory')` | `compile group: 'com.intershop.services.iomconnector', name: 'ac_iomconnector_orderhistory'` | |
`compile project(':ac_iomconnector_rest_common')` | `compile group: 'com.intershop.services.iomconnector', name: 'ac_iomconnector_rest_common'` | |
`compile group: 'com.intershop.responsive', name: 'as_responsive_b2b'` | `compile project(':as_responsive_b2b')` |

Change the *build.gradle* file of your project.

Add the provider of the IOM Connector to the section *versionRecommendation* as Ivy dependency.

**build.gradle (Project)**

versionRecommendation { provider { // ... ivy('IOMconnector', 'com.intershop.services.iomconnector:iomconnector-filter'){} } }

Create a file *.ivyIOMconnector.version* in the project directory with the used IOM Connector version as content:

**.ivyIOMconnector.version**

6.4.0

Re-publish your multiproject.

To add the IOM Connector into your Intershop 7 system, you can either incorporate the cartridges into an already existing assembly or create a new assembly inheriting from an Intershop-7-based assembly. For details about creating a new assembly, see [Recipe: Create a New Assembly Inheriting From an Existing Assembly](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1826510692/Cookbook+-+Gradle+Assembly+Tools#Cookbook-GradleAssemblyTools-createInheritAssembly). If you want to incorporate the cartridges into an already existing assembly, perform the following steps:

Include the IOM Connector's cartridges into the existing assembly.

Open the *build.gradle* file of your assembly, add a list of the IOM Connector's cartridges in the `assembly`

directive and include this list into the assembly's cartridges list:

**build.gradle (Assembly)**

assembly { // ... cartridges { // ... def iomConnectorCartridges = [ 'ac_iomconnector_common', 'ac_iomconnector_order', 'ac_iomconnector_inventory', 'ac_iomconnector_rma', 'ac_iomconnector_orderexport', 'ac_iomconnector_orderexport_b2b', // if b2b functionality is needed 'ac_iomconnector_orderhistory', 'ac_iomconnector_rest_common' ] include (*(iomConnectorCartridges.collect { "com.intershop.services.iomconnector:$it" }), in: [development, test, production]) def iomConnectorSourceCartridges = [ // These are the cartridges which are delivered as source code. 'app_sf_responsive_carriertracking', 'as_iomconnector' ] include(*(iomConnectorSourceCartridges.collect { project(":$it") }), in:[development, test, production]) def iomConnectorInitCartridges = [ 'init_iomconnector' ] include (*(iomConnectorInitCartridges.collect { "com.intershop.services.iomconnector:$it" }), in: init) order = listFromAssembly('<base-assembly>') + /* ... */ + iomConnectorCartridges + iomConnectorSourceCartridges + iomConnectorInitCartridges } }

In the same *build.gradle *file add the following cartridges to `assemblyBuild.database`

:

**build.gradle (Assembly)**

assemblyBuild { database { inherit('<base-assembly>') initCartridges = [ // ... 'ac_iomconnector_common', 'ac_iomconnector_order', 'init_iomconnector' ] } }

Exclude conflicting versions from the assembly build.

Therefore add the following lines at the end of the *build.gradle* * *file of your assembly. If you have already defined `configurations.all`

directive, just enrich it with the *excludes* listed below.

**build.gradle (Assembly)**

configurations.all { exclude group: 'stax', module: 'stax-api' }

Define a unique order sequence.

Both Intershop Commerce Management and Intershop Order Management assign a unique identifier to any order placed in the corresponding system. These identifiers are often referred to as "order document number" or "order ID". In order to have a seamless integration between the two systems, you must synchronize these identifiers. Since ICM has the "leading role" as the orders are created and submitted from customers in the web shop, system administrators need to apply an additional configuration to the order number generation.

The IOM Connector requires an order number generation that provides **unique** order numbers for both systems.

Info

If you are deploying the IOM Connector with ICM and IOM anew, in other words you have no orders placed in both systems, it is safe to skip this step. However, you may want to define a unique order sequence just in case. All you need to do is negotiate a starting number with all parties involved and then add a deployment step that alters the */share/system/config/cluster/database.properties* file, namely the property `intershop.sequence.startsWith`

.

After creating and appropriately configuring the assembly, you must deploy it to the intended target environment.

For details about deploying an assembly, see [Recipe: Run the Deployment (Initial Installation / Upgrade / Downgrade).](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1826510540/Cookbook+-+Deployment+Tools+ICM+7.9#Cookbook-DeploymentToolsICM7.9-Run-the-Deployment)

You must run a database initialization to use the IOM connector.

DBInit is required for the following cartridges:

*ac_iomconnector_common*

*ac_iomconnector_order*

*init_iomconnector*

To execute a full database initialization, use:

gradlew dbinit

To execute the database initialization used for a selected set of cartridges, use:

dbinit -t=ac_iomconnector_common,ac_iomconnector_order,init_iomconnector

For details about managing assembly artifacts, see:

The IOM Connector requires additional post-deployment configuration steps. For details refer to the configurations page.

In order to deploy the IOM Connector with the Intershop Commerce Management, you do not need to configure anything.

For a proper interaction of the two systems (IOM and ICM), however, some configuration is necessary. For more detailed information on how to do this, refer to [Guide - ICM and IOM Configuration Tasks](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1917353023/Guide+-+ICM+and+IOM+Configuration+Tasks).

Additionally, in order to get the IOM working with the ICM 7.10 demo scenario (inSPIRED storefront), specific demo content needs to be uploaded into the IOM. The description and the content can be found here: [Guide - IOM Demo Data Setup for IOM Connector.](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1828425531/Guide+-+IOM+Demo+Data+Setup+for+IOM+Connector)

Info

Do not use warranties. Intershop Order Management currently does not support *service product types*.

Do not use gift cards and certificates (limited tender payments). Intershop Order Management currently does not support *multiple payments. *Only a single so-called open tender payment method can be used.

Both Intershop Commerce Management and Intershop Order Management assign a unique identifier to any order placed in the corresponding system. These identifiers are often referred to as *order document number* or *order ID*. In order to have a seamless integration between the two systems, you must synchronize these identifiers. Since the ICM has the "leading role" as the orders are created and submitted from customers in the web shop, system administrators need to apply an additional configuration to the order number generation.

Info

Intershop Commerce Management's server(s) should be turned off before the steps below are executed.

Go to *<server-installation-dir>/local/bin* and execute `environment.<bat|sh>.`


./iomconnector/server/local/bin/environment.sh

Go to *<server-installation-dir>/local/tools/misc* and execute `ant`

` `

`export-sequence-info -f database.xml`

.

[/iomconnector/server/local/tools/misc]# ant export-sequence-info -f database.xml Buildfile: /iomconnector/server/local/tools/misc/database.xml dbenvironment.environment.decrypt: dbenvironment.environment: environment: export-sequence-info: [sql] Executing commands [sql] 1 of 1 SQL statements executed successfully [sql] Executing commands [sql] 1 of 1 SQL statements executed successfully log: [echo] [02/17/2016 03:20:56 PM] The used enfinity specific sequence informations were successfully exported to file 'sequences-info.properties'. BUILD SUCCESSFUL Total time: 2 seconds

In *<server-installation-dir>/local/tools/misc* open the newly generated file called *sequences-info.properties.*

It looks as shown in the code block below:

#,LAST_NUMBER,INCREMENT_BY,SEQUENCE_NAME,DOMAIN_SPECIFIC,DOMAINNAME,IDENTIFIER #,51,10,SQHHBAQDGBYQAAAAFUCBLM4M0_,TRUE,inSPIRED-inTRONICS,SellerOrder.DocumentNo.NfsKAB1PpEUAAAFTFT89kGWR # Largest last_number is: SellerOrder.DocumentNo.NfsKAB1PpEUAAAFTFT89kGWR - inSPIRED-inTRONICS #intershop.sequence.blockSize = 10 #intershop.sequence.startsWith = 51

Memorize or write down the number of `intershop.sequence.startsWith`

and `intershop.sequence.blockSize`

.

Define unused order sequence.

Note

It is advised to just pick the bigger number between *biggest order ID* taken from the IOM's orders list and the `intershop.sequence.startsWith`

taken at step 3. You may also add a date prefix to the order number, or put a unique machine identifier, as long as it contains only numbers.

In this example, the ICM's order ID is *51* and the IOM's oder ID is *20160128017063*. The bigger one is *20160128017063*. So add the value of `intershop.sequence.blockSize`

to it - *20160128017063 * + 10 = *20160128017073* - and then add 1. The end result is *20160128017074*.

Remove `#`

from the line `intershop.sequence.startWith=`

and change its value to the unused order sequence determined in step 7.

################################################################################ ## ## Series (Sequence) Creation Options ## ## ## series numberPattern settings ## #intershop.sequence.numberPattern=00000000 ## ## blockSize - "increment by <n>" ## startsWith - "start with <n>" ## cacheSize - "cache <n>" or "nocache" if <n> = 0 ## orderFlag - "order" if true or "noorder" if false ## #intershop.sequence.blockSize=50 intershop.sequence.startsWith=20160128017074 #intershop.sequence.cacheSize=0 #intershop.sequence.orderFlag=true

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.