---
id: 'b254eb6147c8e8d3ed46802d92500045'
title: 'Reference - IOM REST API'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/29401V'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:08.117169+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/29401V

This API specification is available for download as an Open API 3.0 YAML file:

# Authentication

## Basic Authentication

Please configure your clients to use this authentication method to submit user name and password.

# Authorization

The permission "View return requests" is required to use the GET endpoints and must be assigned at the requested shop_name organization. The permission "Manage return requests" is required to use the POST endpoints and must be assigned at the requested shop_name organization.

# References

# Limitations

# API Specification

openapi: 3.0.1 info: title: IOM Cache Management REST API description: Cache operations to manage application caches. contact: name: Intershop Communications AG url: http://intershop.com version: "1.0" servers: - url: '{protocol}://{domain}:{port}/servlets/services/caches' variables: protocol: default: http enum: - http - https domain: default: localhost port: default: "8080" security: - basicAuth: [] - bearerAuth: [] paths: /caches/{cacheName}: get: tags: - Cache Management summary: Returns the statuses of the given cache name for all server nodes. description: Returns the statuses of the given cache name for all server nodes. operationId: getCacheStatus parameters: - name: cacheName in: path description: Name of the cache the action should be processed for. required: true schema: type: string enum: - bakery-cache-config responses: "200": description: The request has succeeded. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/HttpResponseImplListCacheStateDO' "401": description: Unauthorized or Forbidden. "500": description: Internal server error. delete: tags: - Cache Management summary: 'Requests to clear a given cache on all server nodes. ' description: Requests to clear a given cache on all server nodes. The cache clear will be processed asynchronously from all server nodes. operationId: deleteCache parameters: - name: cacheName in: path description: Name of the cache the action should be processed for. required: true schema: type: string enum: - bakery-cache-config responses: "200": description: The request has succeeded. "401": description: Unauthorized or Forbidden "500": description: Internal server error. /caches: get: tags: - Cache Management summary: Returns the statuses for all cache for all server nodes. description: Returns the statuses for all cache for all server nodes. operationId: getCacheStates responses: "200": description: The request has succeeded. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/HttpResponseImplListCacheStateDO' "401": description: Unauthorized or Forbidden. "500": description: Internal server error. components: schemas: CacheStateDO: type: object properties: id: type: integer format: int64 cacheName: type: string description: Name of the cache example: bakery-cache-config clearDate: type: string description: Timestamp of the last cache clear for the cache and the server format: date-time action: type: string description: Specifies under which circumstances the cache was cleared. A server startup as a clean cache after server startup or requested as the cache was cleared by a request example: server startup enum: - server startup - requested serverId: type: string description: Unique identifier for a server example: BACKEND_0.0.0.0 description: Represents the current status of a cache on a server. CodedException: type: object properties: message: type: string code: type: string FieldError: type: object properties: message: type: string sourceField: type: string HttpResponseImplListCacheStateDO: type: object properties: data: type: array items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/CacheStateDO' statusCode: type: integer format: int32 errors: type: array items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/FieldError' exceptions: type: array items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/CodedException' securitySchemes: basicAuth: type: http description: Basic Authentication scheme: basic

[Open ReDoc-rendered Open API documentation in separate window.](https://knowledge.intershop.com/rdd/Redoc-29401V.html)

## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.