---
id: 'b262a73105fc9e7e1dc5d0c444576659'
title: 'Generating Audit Report'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32724T'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:45.737277+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/32724T

# Generating Audit Report

To generate an Audit Report:
-
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Mass Data Tasks | Audit Report.
This displays the Audit Report manager.

-
Select the management context from the Context filter.
Only the activity of the management context that you select is included in the report.

-
Select the users from the user ID filter.
Only the activity of the User IDs that you select are included in the report.

-
Select the objects from the Object Type filter.
Only the activity of the objects that you select are included in the report.

-
Select the events from the Transaction Type filter.
Only the transactions selected are included in the report.

-
Select the Date Range from the date picker.
You can select a specific day, or a timeframe from which the report is generated.

Note: The date range is limited by the length of time the information is stored in the system.

-
Click Generate Report.
This creates a report based on the specified settings.


## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.