---
id: 'b3aeab225601433d12bfe29f8eaff301'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/Z28637'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:08.874463+00:00'
---
| Description | API change | How to migrate | ||||||
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Basket calculation results are now always persisted | To prevent issues with multiple application servers, basket calculation results (in the form of an XML computed item structure) are now always persisted. This causes the following changes:
| See notes in API changes column. | ||||||
Java code of cartridge | New interface is added for import elements representing extension to catalog filters (views).
Old interface for import elements representing extension to catalog filters (views) is deprecated.
New implementation class of the bulker for importing catalog filters (views). The bulker now uses the ORM layer instead of SQL Loader.
| Implement the new interface for catalog filters (views) import. For example see the recipe
|

Changes done to content management system

**Java code**

`com.intershop.component.pmc.capi.viewcontext.ViewContextMgr`

`createViewContext(String, ContextObjectRelation, Domain, App)`

**Pipelet**

`GetPageletView`

that answers with a pagelet wrapped into a PageletView implementation to handle sharing aspects.`com.intershop.component.pmc.capi.viewcontext.ViewContextMgr`

`createViewContext(String, ContextObjectRelation, Domain, PageletModelRepository)`

insteadThe following Java classes were move from `bc_basket_service`

to the micro service project `common-webinterface`

which is referenced as library.

`com.intershop.common.webinterface.capi.ServiceNotAvailableException`

`com.intershop.common.webinterface.capi.xml.PeriodXmlAdapter`

`com.intershop.common.webinterface.capi.xml.UriXmlAdapter`

Java code of cartridge *bc_catalog*

in *f_business/f_catalog*

In Java class `com.intershop.component.catalog.capi.CatalogCategoryBO t`

he following method has been added:

`Collection<CatalogCategoryBO> getMenuSortedAccessibleSubCatalogCategoryBOs()`

Java code change in *p_platform *

*Row.java*

In the class `com.intershop.beehive.core.capi.query.Row `

the following method has been changed:

`public <T> T get(String name)`

The following methods were added:

`public <T> T getRawData(String name)`

`public JDBCRow getJDBCRow()`

The method `getJDBCRow()`

is only for internal usage. Please keep using the instance of *Row* directly.`get(String name)`

is now generic. If the return-value is an instance of `java.lang.Number`

, the return type is `java.math.BigDecimal`

.

If the original value is needed, instead of a `java.math.BigDecimal`

, the method `getRawData(String name)`

should be used.

Java code change in *p_platform*

*SQLUtil.java*

In Java class `com.intershop.beehive.core.capi.search.sql.SQLUtil`

the following methods have been deleted:

`public static StringBuffer convDate(Date date)`

`public static String getDateFormatString()`

`public static String convDate2GMTDateString(Date date)`

`com.intershop.beehive.core.capi.util.DateHelper`

to calculate a timestamp in UTC.Java code change in *p_platform*

*AnalyzeTablesDecorator.java*

The E-Mail Marketing Provider *eCircle* was acquired by another company and is not available anymore in the market. All sources and corresponding tests have been removed.

The capability to register a custom E-Mail Marketing Provider still remains in the product.

`com.intershop.beehive.core.capi.mbean.OracleDataSourceInformation`

and its interface `com.intershop.beehive.core.capi.mbean.OracleDataSourceInformationMBean`

are removed to cleanup oracle dependencies in core cartridge`com.intershop.beehive.core.dbinit.capi.PrepareException.getNestedException()`

has been removed.`com.intershop.beehive.core.dbinit.capi.PrepareException.getCause() instead`

`BitSetSerializer`

and `BitSetDeserializer`

have been moved from package `com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi`

(cartridge `com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.v1.capi`

in cartridge The dependency to the new cartridge has to be added to the dependencies list. Both classes are still available, but now deprecated. It is recommended to use the classes from the new package.

The 'messaging' component was extracted from p_platform and got a new name and a new group:

In the dependencies section of the build.gradle are following replacements necessary(e.g. compile)

- compile group: 'com.intershop.platform', name: 'messaging' + compile group: 'com.intershop', name: 'common-messaging

`com.intershop.beehive.core.internal.pipeline.AbstractPipelineNodeClassLoader`

and `com.intershop.beehive.core.internal.pipeline.PipeletClassLoader`

are removed from The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.