---
id: 'b4c1b1d231c27c44d75e92576ad2c70e'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/K31179'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:36:22.871349+00:00'
---
Intershop Commerce Management 11 supports installations with large amounts of data, including products and users. Additionally, it allows for the creation and deletion of web shops at runtime. The document explains how the mass data of these web shops is removed from the database.

**Asynchronous Cleanup**: To avoid browser timeouts and error pages, mass data cannot be cleaned up during web request execution. Instead, jobs are used to asynchronously remove specific mass data objects. Asynchronous cleanup also allows for scheduling the cleanup job during low web traffic periods, reducing the load on the database.

**Transaction Handling and Stored Procedures**: Using the persistent API (ORM objects) to cleanup the data leads to a large amount of SQL statements resulting in a high load on the database server and poor runtime performance. Additionally, it is important to consider transaction handling and avoid large transactions in OLTP applications like web shops. Therefore, the cleanup jobs use PL/SQL stored procedures with accordingly optimized transaction handling.

**Extensibility**: The business objects are defined in one or more cartridges. Implementation partner can also define or extend the business objects, which reference domains, products or users in their own cartridges. Each cartridge is responsible for properly removing referencing objects.

This glossary describes the terms in this document:

|
|
|---|---|
PL/SQL/Stored Procedure | PL/SQL (Procedural Language/Structured Query Language) and Stored Procedure are procedural extensions of the language for Databases (SQL) |

Each cartridge responsible for removing cross-cartridge business objects has a pipeline for triggering the removal process. This pipeline is triggered periodically by a job, also prepared by the cartridge.

Currently the following jobs for the root site are available:

`DeleteDomainReferences`


`DeleteUserReferences`


`DeleteProductReferences`


The trigger pipeline executes a deletion pipeline or handler (see below which one) in each started cartridge. The cartridges are processed in reverse order, following the last created, first removed principle.

The available jobs for mass data deletion with detailed job parameters are:

|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Domain | core | 60 | true | TriggerDeleteDomainReferences Deprecated for removal pipeline calls:
| DomainReferenceDeletionHandler | Triggers deleted domain cleanup. | ||
User | core | 60 | true | BlockSize = 200 | TriggerDeleteUserReferences Deprecated for removal pipeline calls:
| UserReferenceDeletionHandler | Triggers deleted user cleanup. | |
Product | xcs | 60 | true | BlockSize = 200 | TriggerDeleteProductReferences | N/A yet | Triggers deleted product cleanup. The maximum number of products which the |

The System Management Console (SMC) displays the configured deletion jobs, navigate to *Schedules* | *Scheduling* within the root domain.

Each mass data cleanup job calls all pipelines in cartridges defining the corresponding property with the pipeline and start node name:

[DeleteProductReferences](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1751056932/Job+-+DeleteProductReferences): `intershop.cartridges.<cartridge>.ProductDeletionPipeline=<pipeline>-<start node>`


Example for `ac_bmecat`

:

**ac_bmecat.properties**

intershop.cartridges.ac_bmecat.ProductDeletionPipeline = BMECAT_RemoveProductReferences-Start

Each mass data cleanup job executes all handlers in the loaded cartridges, which include a handler binding for either the interface `com.intershop.beehive.core.capi.domain.DomainReferenceDeletionHandler`

or `com.intershop.beehive.core.capi.user.UserReferenceDeletionHandler`

with the Guice Multibinder:

**Cartridge Module Multibinder**

public class BcOrganizationNamingModule extends AbstractModule { @Override protected void configure() { // Domain Reference Deletion Handler final Multibinder<DomainReferenceDeletionHandler> domainReferenceDeletionHandler = Multibinder.newSetBinder(binder(), DomainReferenceDeletionHandler.class); domainReferenceDeletionHandler.addBinding().to(YourDomainReferenceDeletionHandler.class); // User Reference Deletion Handler final Multibinder<UserReferenceDeletionHandler> userReferenceDeletionHandler = Multibinder.newSetBinder(binder(), UserReferenceDeletionHandler.class); userReferenceDeletionHandler.addBinding().to(YourUserReferenceDeletionHandler.class); } }

All stored procedures that remove domains, users, and products referencing objects are named

|
|
|---|---|
Domain |
|
User |
|
Product |
|

whereby `*`

gives a hint about the objects, the stored procedure removes.

Replication Environments

Intershop Commerce Management 11 alters the table structure in replication environments. This means that each stored procedure must function in both replication and non-replication environments. According utility PL/SQL packages are available.

The default location for stored procedures is `<cartridge>/src/main/resources/resources/<cartridge>/dbinit/scripts`

.

All stored procedures removing domains are created and maintained within the database by [DBPrepare](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822568213/Concept+-+DBMigrate+and+DBInit).

The usage of preparers are:

Preparer (DBInit)

`com.intershop.beehive.core.dbinit.preparer.database.SQLScriptPreparer resources/<cartridge>/dbinit/scripts/`


`<spSingleFile>`

or

`spmainfile.ddl`


MigrationPreparer (DBMigrate)

`com.intershop.beehive.core.dbmigrate.preparer.database.ExecuteSQLScriptPreparer resources/<cartridge>/dbinit/scripts/`


`<spSingleFile>`

or

`spmainfile.ddl`


All stored procedures removing domains are triggered using `JDBCUtils.executeStoredProcedureWithDbmsOutput(...)`

or by several executions of the pipelet `ExecuteStoredProcedure`

.

For example of `sp_deleteFooBarsByDomain`

, see [Sample Domain Deletion Stored Procedure](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1773254963/Cookbook+-+Mass+Data+Cleanup+valid+to+11.10.0#SampleDeletionStoredProcedure).

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.