---
id: 'b57fb556caaa28916f6f897f9402eace'
title: 'Video Tutorial'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/C28612'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:39:33.941832+00:00'
---
Discover the catalog view feature of Intershop Commerce Management. The catalog view feature is the best way to configure different storefronts for different customer groups. Without developing effort, you can make dedicated catalogs, products and services visible and available for every customer.

This Intershop tutorial shows how to configure and integrate this feature into your online shop.

Additionally to this tutorial, you can follow the tutorial tasks in the *Guidance* section below the video.


This video tutorial shows all relevant steps to configure and integrate catalog views. This includes the following tasks:

In our example, we want to offer products at a reduced price for registered students. We entice them with a reduced game console and hope they will fill the basket with more products afterwards.

For this, prepare a customer segment called *Students*, assign special product prices to this customer segment using a price list and add some of the previously validated *Students *accounts.

Go to *Catalog | Catalog View* in your channel back-office.

It is recommended to define different catalog views for different customer segments.

As *Publishing Interval* choose *Manual Publishing Only*.

It is possible to have catalog views published at regular intervals using a scheduled job to automate this process. The page cache is invalidated automatically as soon as the catalog view is set online or published.

Click *Apply*.

Switch to the tab *Catalogs*.

When starting catalog view definition, the catalog view excludes everything by default. Therefore, catalogs have to be included manually. To select a specific subcategory or product, open the corresponding category or subcategory.

Select the catalogs *Computers*, *Entertainment*, *Cameras* and *Students Special*.

Click *Apply*.

A disabled checkbox means an inclusion on a higher level. A disabled checkbox with an icon right next to it means an inclusion on a lower level.

A disabled checkbox means an exclusion on a higher level. A disabled checkbox with an icon right next to it means an exclusion on a lower level.

The exclusion of products may have an effect on service types.

A single customer segment can be assigned to multiple catalog views in parallel. If a customer segment is not assigned to any view, it has no catalog visibility restrictions. In contrast, you have the possibility to assign multiple customer segments to one catalog view.

Later on, catalog views must be published whenever new categories are included or excluded or whenever the product repository is updated. They can be published together or individually in the overview.

After these steps are done, an already prepared attribute needs to be added to the indexes to trigger the indexing of additional information about the product's visibility in each catalog view:

Select *Catalog View Filter* and click on *Add*.

Please do the same for all relevant search indexes. In our example, we will also apply these steps to the German search index.

Select *Catalog View Filter* and click on *Add*.

With the *Catalog View Filter* attribute, each catalog view ID, where the product is visible, is added to the index. At query time, an additional condition is added to the search index query if the catalog filter IDs attribute is present in the index configuration.

In case catalog view definitions are in conflict, the setting for including categories take precedence over the settings for excluding categories.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.