---
id: 'b5b6f0e99394c63850df5063d7d816df'
title: 'Approving/Rejecting New Customers'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/Z32522'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:41.650023+00:00'
---
# Approving/Rejecting New Customers

With the customer approval enabled (see [Customer Approval](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/customer_management/concept_customer_approval.html)), new customers must be manually approved for them to be able to log in and place orders in the storefront. With the customer approval disabled, new customers are approved automatically. In this case, the approval status information and the manual approval functionality are hidden.

The following approval status changes are possible:

-
Customers with the approval statuses "pending" or "rejected" can be approved.

-
Customers with the approval statuses "pending" or "approved" can be rejected.


Basically, there are two ways to set the customer approval status: for customers with the approval status "pending" directly from the customers' and users' list, and for all customers via the Customer detail view.

## Approving/Rejecting Customers in List View

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Customers | Customers.
This displays all customers and users in a single list view. For customers with the approval status "pending", the list view shows the approval status and the Approve and Reject buttons to change the approval status.
-
Click Approve in the row of the customer you intend to approve.
The status is set immediately, and the customer can log in and place orders in the storefront.
-
Click Reject in the row of the customer you intend to reject.
The status is set immediately, and the customer can neither log in nor place orders.Tip:To approve or reject multiple customers at once, you can select all and click Approve/Reject at the top of the list. Intershop Commerce Management applies this action to customers with the approval status "pending" only.

## Approving/Rejecting Customers in Detail View

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Customers | Customers.
This displays all customers and users in a single list view.
-
Click the name or ID of the customer.
This displays the Customer detail view.
-
On the General tab, select the approval status.
Open the Approval Status drop-down list and select one of the available statuses (Approved or Rejected).
-
Click Apply.
Otherwise, click Cancel to discard the changes.