---
id: 'b5e9d2ecbf2df7e33f8cb48821540050'
title: 'Job'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/31446D'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:12.466245+00:00'
---
Name | ProcessMarketingImpex |
|---|---|
Domain | <Organization>-<Channel> |
Job Dependencies | none |
AcquiredResources | "Schedule: ProcessMarketingImpex[<jobID>]" |
Cartridge | bc_marketing, bc_foundation, ac_email_marketing_std |
Pipeline | ProcessImpexJob-Start |
Affected Domain Objects | Promotion |
Affected Tables |
|
Stored Procedure | |
Default State | Disabled |
Is Site Specific | True |
Edit State | Globally Enabled |
Live State | Disabled |
Server Group | JOB |
Description | Governs the export, import validation, and import available from the Marketing Import & Export page in the back office. Each created job corresponds to an export, import validation, or import process visible in the status section of the Marketing Import & Export page. |
Scheduling | Not needed. The job is created each time an import/export task is ran from the Marketing Import & Export page in the back office. |
What Happens Switched Off | |
Trouble Shooting | |
Comments | The resource "Schedule: ProcessMarketingImpex[<jobID>]" is created for each job. The <jobID> is the UUID of the job configuration. |

Product Version | 7.0 |
|---|---|
Product To Version | |
Status |

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.