---
id: 'b6124352c6a7187d6cb5a481f3b9449b'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/28594M'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:38:08.100667+00:00'
---
In the case the orders are exported to and archived in an external system (e.g., order management system, ERP) or if the data for a specific customer have to be deleted the ICM provides the order deletion feature. On the one hand side you may reduce costs for data storage on the other hand this also takes into account customer requests for data deletion in compliance with GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation).

The Order Deletion feature allows the shop manager to mark orders, e.g., for specific customers that have to be deleted by using the order status import. The system administrator is able to configure the deletion job in the SMC. The following chapters describe the order deletion workflow and also the side effects of the order deletion.

Following the e-commerce reference process we have to tag the order which has to be deleted in a first step. For setting this flag the order status import is ready-to-use. As a second step you have to run the order deletion job via SMC. We provide a default job via DBINIT. You can use the default job or create your own to match your requirements.

Order status import schema

<xs:attribute name="toBeDeleted" type="xs:boolean"/>

Order status import example

<order id="" status="" toBeDeleted="true"> <order id="" status="" toBeDeleted="false">

Find concrete example here [Order Status Import. ](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1844222202/Concept+-+Order+Fulfillment+Status+Import#Concept-OrderFulfillmentStatusImport-OrderStatusImportSchema)

For the order deletion we introduced the Job - Delete Orders. The job triggers order deletion with all according references.

By default it deletes orders whose `toBeDeleted`

flag is to `true`

and whose status is not PENDING, MANUAL_INTERVENTION_NEEDED or EXPORTFAILED.

The status selection can be overwritten by defining the attribute `ExcludedStatuses`

(data type: String), with comma separated values (e.g., `ExcludedStatuses=NEW,EXPORTFAILED`

). If set to `NONE`

no statuses are excluded.

It is also possible to define the maximum number of orders, which are to be deleted during a run (default 10,000). Larger values are not recommended due to possible database issues/locks. The value can be overwritten by the attribute `MaxNumberOfOrders`

(data type: Integer).

Note

You have to trigger the `RunCacheRefresh`

job after deleting an order via deletion job to update object references like `PromotionPO:getPromotionOrderAssignmentPOs`

.

Orders are linked to some other objects in the Intershop Commerce Management. In the following you find such affected objects. Usual the orders are linked in each table. After a successful order deletion the link will be removed whereas the order number is still present.

For having a transaction overview about gift cards and certificates redeemed in the shop we provide a section in Marketing | Gift Cards & Certificates. Here the shop manager is able to check transactions for each bought gift card and certificate. In the transaction table a link to the related order.

To get an overview about the promotion codes redemption we provide a section in Marketing | Promotion Code Groups | Codes. Here the shop manager is able to check redemption of specific promotion codes. In the given table an order link is present.

In a business channel the shop manager is able to create contracts for customers. To check the exceedance of the contract revenue we provide an order overview in Customers | Contracts for each contract. A link to the placed orders is present.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.