---
id: 'b61b3748ef2d51585063039a761f5a39'
title: 'Support Article'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/Q30014'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:36:50.815606+00:00'
---
This article describes the basic steps that need to be taken for a successful PWA migration.

The Intershop Progressive Web App is under continuous development. To get an overview of the major changes applied in each version, please visit [PWA Migrations](https://github.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/blob/develop/docs/guides/migrations.md).

Additionally, important aspects of the REST API change over time. Please visit [Guide - 7.10 REST API Changes](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1873531028/Guide+-+7.10+REST+API+Changes) for further details.

In addition to the PWA, our REST API is also under constant development. Therefore, it is possible that important aspects and endpoints of the REST API may change over time. Please visit [Guide - 7.10 REST API Changes](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1873531028/Guide+-+7.10+REST+API+Changes) for further details. This is especially important if you have customized your REST API and PWA.

It is recommended to migrate a PWA project to the latest possible version of the PWA by applying all commits/custom fixes of that version as there may be dependencies between them.

In general, it is also possible to apply individual commits/custom fixes. However, this is not recommended as this approach will lead to merge conflicts sooner or later.

Importing changes of new releases is done with Git tooling.

Remember to run `npm install `

after importing a change that modified the *package.json* and *package-lock.json* and run tests as well as linting in the process. Additionally, please read the [CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/blob/develop/CHANGELOG.md) as well as the [migrations.md](https://github.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/blob/develop/docs/guides/migrations.md) file before migrating.

For further information, please read the [Customization Guide](https://github.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/blob/develop/docs/guides/customizations.md) and see what has recently changed in this [Customization Documentation](https://github.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/pull/910/files) on GitHub.

Intershop provides commits / custom fixes for the latest PWA version via GitHub in the [Pull requests](https://github.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed) section.

Follow these steps:

`git remote add intershop https://github.com/intershop/intershop-pwa.git`

.`git checkout -b <new_branch_name>`

.Cherry-pick the desired range of commits of the new Intershop PWA release (e.g by the Intershop PWA version tags or the specific commit SHAs) into the created migration branch by running `git cherry-pick <versionTagA>..<versionTagB>`

.

Keep in mind that there might be merge conflicts that need to be resolved. It is recommended to use the information and differences for the commits provided in the Intershop GitHub repository.

Additionally, make sure to run `git commit`

and `git cherry-pick --continue`

after each resolved merge conflict.

It is advisable to run `npm install`

again and check if the project's code still works as expected. This can be done, for example, by running `npm run check`

or starting the server.

`git remote add intershop https://github.com/intershop/intershop-pwa.git`

.Create a branch based on the release tag of the Intershop PWA you want to migrate to by running `git checkout -b <new_branch_name>`

.

Rebase the commits of the new Intershop PWA release onto the main development branch of the current project by running `git rebase --onto <target_branch_name> <commit>`

. The commit specifies (e.g by the Intershop PWA version tag or the specific commit SHA) where the current migration branch should be "cut off".

Keep in mind that there might be merge conflicts that need to be resolved. It is recommended to use the information and differences for the commits provided in the Intershop GitHub repository.

Additionally, make sure to run `git rebase --continue`

after each resolved merge conflict.

`npm install`

again and check if the project's code still works as expected. This can be done, for example, by running `npm run check`

or starting the server.`git remote add intershop https://github.com/intershop/intershop-pwa.git`

.`git checkout -b <new_branch_name>`

.Merge the release branch with the created migration branch by running `git merge intershop`

.

Keep in mind that any appearing merge conflicts must be resolved at once without the specific commit context.

`npm install`

again and check if the project's code still works as expected. This can be done, for example, by running `npm run check`

or starting the server.Starting from Intershop Commerce Management 7.10.21.0, the headless application type *intershop.REST* is available. It is intended to be the application type of choice for headless REST applications for the ICM storefront. The new application type combines B2B and B2C functionality and does not rely on the Responsive Starter Store, but still provides full ICM REST API functionality.

However, it is still possible to use the Responsive Starter Store with the Hybrid Approach. To do so, follow these instructions:

`icmApplication`

setting and add the required PWA-specific content includes in the Responsive Starter Store via `componentEntryPointDefinitions`

in the ICM project source code. Please visit [Concept - Headless Application Type - intershop.REST](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1917339378/Concept+-+Headless+Application+Type+-+intershop.REST) as well as [Concept - Intershop Progressive Web App - Hybrid Approach](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/294L43) for further details.

At first, the new *intershop.REST* application should be created in the appropriate channel. It is also possible to use the B2B or B2C application type. However, this is not recommended, as the PWA is only developed against the new *i**ntershop.REST* type since version 0.22.

Afterwards, the PWA has to be configured in the *environment.default.ts* and the *environment.model.ts* to use that application. The *i**ntershop.REST* application can be set as default, so no further changes to the `icmApplication`

configuration are required. Any REST API differences in the */customers* resource will be compensated by the PWA. However, if multiple applications are running and *i**ntershop.REST* is not the default application, it should also be set through `icmApplication`

.

[...] export const ENVIRONMENT_DEFAULTS: Omit<Environment, 'icmChannel'> = { /* INTERSHOP COMMERCE MANAGEMENT REST API CONFIGURATION */ icmBaseURL: 'https://pwa-ish-demo.test.intershop.com', icmServer: 'INTERSHOP/rest/WFS', icmServerStatic: 'INTERSHOP/static/WFS', icmApplication: 'rest', identityProvider: 'ICM', [...]

import { overrides } from './environment.development'; import { ENVIRONMENT_DEFAULTS, Environment } from './environment.model'; export const environment: Environment = { ...ENVIRONMENT_DEFAULTS, icmChannel: 'inSPIRED-inTRONICS-Site', features: ['compare', 'recently', 'rating', 'guestCheckout', 'wishlists'], ...overrides, };

The switch to the headless application type requires adjustments regarding the changes in the used CMS content model. Almost all other parts work as before. This is also due to the fact that the application type is not used in any way to define whether the PWA acts as a B2C or B2B storefront. This is only controlled by the PWA deployment's enabled [feature toggles](https://github.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/blob/develop/docs/concepts/configuration.md#feature-toggles).

However, there are changes required for handling the different */customers* and */privatecustomers* REST resources: The */customers* resource is used for user login. Once logged in, different resources must be used for further calls depending on whether the user is a business customer (*/customers*) or a private customer (*/privatecustomers*).

This distinction is currently made based on the presence of a `customer.companyName`

(business customer) or its absence (private customer). This does not decide whether it is a B2B or a B2C shop. It could even be a mixed customers shop. It is only required to determine how REST calls for the currently logged-in user should be handled. It does not affect REST calls that are not based on the */customers* resource.

There is also a handling implemented to ensure that the PWA is still compatible with the other application types *intershop.B2CResponsive* and *intershop.SMBResponsive* regarding the */customers* resource.

Work against the new application type with the PWA, check what CMS content is missing and migrate the necessary parts.

If you want to start using the PWA, it is possible to switch features from your responsive storefront piece by piece using a hybrid approach. This means, running Angular and the classic storefront in parallel, switching seamlessly between both. For example, a customer might start shopping in the Angular PWA, while the checkout process is handled by the classic storefront. Once the checkout process is complete, the Angular storefront takes over again.

The main purpose of this approach is to enable the use of all PWA features while adding Responsive Starter Store (RSS) features, since the PWA does not support all features available in the RSS. It is possible to move the available functionality to the Angular storefront by migration.

Please visit [Hybrid Approach](https://github.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/wiki/Hybrid-Approach) and [Concept - Intershop Progressive Web App - Hybrid Approach](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/294L43) for further details.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.