---
id: 'ba7a849da9221b80ef421ea0bff04f20'
title: 'Editing Component Template Content'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32K410'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:09.667960+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/32K410

# Editing Component Template Content

To edit the content of a component template:
-
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Component Templates.
This opens the Component Templates tree view.

-
Click the name or ID of the component template you intend to edit.
This opens the Content tab of the detail view. The Overview section of the Content tab displays an inheritance tree, which shows the origin of the current element, and a placeholder list as a reference of all assigned placeholders.

-
Set values for the required parameters and edit the content as necessary.
The available parameters or content elements depend on the component type on which the current template is based.

-
Click Apply to save your settings.
Otherwise, click Reset to discard your changes.


## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.