---
id: 'ba87f403ac6727fc884f8a17ac014541'
title: 'ISML Custom Tag'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/M24801'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:26.896833+00:00'
---
If an object is to be rendered within an ISML template, it has to be passed onto the corresponding render artifact. The ISML module does not specify an explicit parameter for the object. The context object relation of the respective view context has to specify the object as one of its call parameters. The object is then expected to be available as entry in the pipeline dictionary of the invocation environment with a key similar to the call parameter name.

The module to trigger object rendering via view contexts in ISML is `<ISVIEWCONTEXT>`

.

<ISViewContext ( ViewContext = "( {ISML expression} )" ID = "( {String} | {ISML expression} )" ResourceSet = "( {String} | {ISML expression} )" )>

<ISViewContext ViewContext="#PageletConfigurationParameters:ProductView#"> or <ISViewContext ID="a.systemmanaged.viewcontext.include.pagelet2-ViewContext" ResourceSet="a_cartridge">

One of the two optional parameters (`ViewContext`

or `ID`

) has to be present when the module is executed. The module expects the `ID`

of a view context instance or a `ViewContext`

may be passed directly to the module.

Starting with Intershop 7.6

With Intershop 7.6 the new attribute `ResourceSet`

has been introduced that is now a required companion to the `ID`

parameter.

`<ISVIEWCONTEXT>`

is used with an `ID`

but without a given `ResourceSet`

an error is logged and the rendering of the view context will not work.`ViewContext`

The view context instance ready for rendering.

`ID`

The identifier being part of the semantic key of the view context. The content repository domain is detected automatically.

`ResourceSet `

Note

Valid for Intershop Commerce Suite 7.6 or later.

Usually the cartridge ID of the context object relation that uniquely identifies a system-managed view context. If ID is not denoting a system-managed view context, use the cartridge ID displayed in the *View Contexts* list hover shown in the Commerce Management application.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.