---
id: 'bc584a6069e0c21f8a1cc6fa8a761d63'
title: 'Discount Rules'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3M2637'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:07.491401+00:00'
---
# Discount Rules

## Promotion Conditions

When defining discount rules you specify the conditions that trigger the promotion. Triggering a promotion means that the promotional benefit is applied to either a product in the customer's basket or the entire order.

In a discount rule, multiple conditions can be combined using the logical operators *AND* and *OR* to build complex Boolean expressions. For example you may create an expression constructed from the following conditions:

-
The numbers of items in the basket is greater than 10

-
The order total is greater than 100 USD

-
The customer-selected shipping method is "ship to store"


Assuming that you combine all these conditions using *AND* operators, the promotion will be triggered when each of the sub-conditions is true.

If an expression contains both logical operators (*AND* and *OR*), the *AND* operator takes precedence over the *OR* operator. For example, if you create an expression consisting of three conditions like this, *C1 AND C2 OR C3*, the sub-expression *C1 AND C2* is evaluated first and the result of the expression is afterwards OR-combined with *C3*.

The various conditions you can choose from fall into four categories. See the following table for details:

| Category | Condition | Description |
|---|---|---|
| Activation Time | Activation Time | This condition allows to schedule a promotion in a fine-granular way. Define a time range during which the promotion is active by specifying a start and an end date. Using the Frequency options, you can determine the days during the activation period on which the promotion will be active. Thus, you may configure a promotion to be only available on a certain weekday or on a certain day of the month. Using the Start Date/End Date option allows you to specify a period in which the promotion is valid. Using the Intraday Period From/To option allows you to specify a daily start and an end time for the promotion. |
| Cashback Earning | Cashback Earning |
Note:
This feature is available for B2C channels only. This condition is used to generate cashback earnings with a definable validity period from the discount a customer would receive. To have this category available, cashback must be activated for the current channel, see A promotion code group where the cashback is stored as coupon code can be assigned to the condition. For information on how to create a promotion code group, see |
| Customer Profile Note:
In a B2B context, these conditions are checked individually for every single user of a customer. |
Customer's First Purchase | Triggers the promotion when a new customer orders for the first time through the channel. |
| Customer's First Purchase per Month | Triggers the promotion when the customer orders for the first time in the current month. | |
| Customer's First Purchase Since Date | Triggers the promotion if the customer orders for the first time since the specified date. Either select a date using the calendar widget, or enter a date by hand. | |
| Item | Item Inclusions/Exclusions | Allows to include/exclude products and categories in/from promotions. Click the provided links and select items to include/exclude in/from the list of available objects. Select the Override Application Level Exclusions checkbox if you want to override the default exclusions for the application set in the preferences, as described in Note:
Retail sets cannot be used as item inclusions or exclusions. Please make sure that no retail sets are assigned. |
| Minimum Number of Items Defined in Item Inclusions | Specifies the minimum number (value > 0) of items defined in item inclusions a customer needs to place in the basket in order to trigger the promotion. | |
| Minimum Price of Items Defined in Item Inclusions | Specifies the minimum price (value > 0) for an item defined in item inclusions a customer needs to place in the basket in order to trigger the promotion. | |
| Minimum Total Purchase Amount of Items Defined in Item Inclusions | Specifies the minimum total purchase amount (value > 0) for all items defined in item inclusions a customer needs to place in the basket in order to trigger the promotion. | |
| Product Attribute | Allows to create promotions for specific product(s) based on a product attribute. Both standard product attributes and custom product attributes are supported. For custom attributes the attribute names can be taken directly from the product pages. For standard attributes the technical attribute names must be used, see Note:
If the promotions are to apply to several locales, the localized attribute names must also be considered. This also includes separators such as "." or "," for numbers and measurements. |
|
| Shipping Method | Allows to define one or more shipping methods for single items that will trigger the promotion. | |
| Shipping Region | Allows to define one or more shipping regions for single items that will trigger the promotion. | |
| Order | Minimum Number of Items | Triggers the promotion if the items in the order reach the specified number (value > 0) . |
| Number of Items | Allows to compare the total quantity of items in the basket with a specific amount using various operators:
|
|
| Minimum Order Value | Triggers the promotion if the order's total reaches the specified value (value > 0). | |
| Order Value | Allows to compare the order amount with a certain purchase amount using various operators:
|
|
| Payment Method | Allows to define one or more payment methods for the order that will trigger the promotion. | |
| Shipping Method | Allows to define one or more shipping methods for the order that will trigger the promotion. | |
| Shipping Region | Allows to define one or more shipping regions for the order that will trigger the promotion. | |
| Recurring Order | Recurring Order |
Triggers the promotion for a specific range of orders within a recurring order. Leaving To Order empty applies the promotion to all orders of a recurring order starting from the specified From Order. You can also run multiple promotions based on recurring order conditions. These promotions can be applied simultaneously, at scheduled intervals, or varied depending on the product assortment. Note: This feature is provided through the Recurring Order Extension and is not available out of the box. For details, refer to
|

## Promotion Discounts

Promotion Discounts determine the benefit that the promotion offers to the members of the target group. See the following tables for details on the available discounts:

- Order Discounts
Table 2. Order discounts Type Trigger Description Order Order Percentage Off Grant a percentaged discount (value > 0) on the order value. Order Value Off Grant a fixed discount (value > 0) on the order value. For both triggers it is possible to set a maximum discount value (

*Limit to max ($)*) and the maximum number of discounts per order to grant (*Max discounts per order to grant*). - Item DiscountsItem discounts can be applied to:
Table 3. Item discounts Type Trigger Description Item Item Percentage Off Grant a percentaged discount (value > 0) on a product. Item Target Price Grant a (modified) fixed price (value ≥ 0) for a product. Item Value Off Grant a fixed discount (value > 0) on a product. - All items
- A limited number of items (value > 0). By using the select box, this can be further refined to:
- A limited number of item(s) per cart.
Allows to define the maximum number of items in a shopping cart to be discounted.

- A limited number of item(s) per line item.
Allows to define the maximum number of items of a line item to be discounted.

- A limited number of line item(s).
Allows to define the maximum number of line items to be discounted. In this case all items that make up a line item will be discounted, regardless of their number.


- A limited number of item(s) per cart.

- All cart items
- All cart items matching the condition
- All cart items matching the condition but do not count towards the minimum number of included items
- Selected items (via product or category selection)
- Items with a minimum price

Further options allow to set whether the lowest price product or the highest price product should be discounted first. For all triggers it is possible to set a maximum discount value (

*Limit to max ($)*) and the maximum number of discounts per order to grant (*Max discounts per order to grant*).

- Shipping Discounts
Table 4. Shipping discounts Type Trigger Description Shipping Shipping Percentage Off Grant a percentaged discount (value > 0) on the shipping cost. Shipping Value Off Grant a fixed discount (value > 0) on the shipping cost. Shipping Target Price Grant a (modified) fixed cost (value ≥ 0) for shipping. Shipping discounts can be applied to:- All shipping methods or selected shipping methods
- All shipping regions or selected shipping regions
- Order shipping total
- Bucket shipping total
- A limited number of items
- All cart items
- All cart items matching the condition
- All cart items matching the condition but do not count towards the minimum number of included items
- Selected items (via product or category selection)
- Items with a minimum price

For all triggers it is possible to set a maximum discount value (

*Limit to max ($)*) and the maximum number of discounts per order to grant (*Max discounts per order to grant*). - Free Gift Discounts
Table 5. Free gift discounts Type Trigger Description Free Gift Automatic Gift Grants a give-away product, placed free of charge in the customer's basket. Hidden Gift A hidden gift is similar to an automatic gift but is added without announcement to the order and does not appear in the customer's basket. For both triggers it is possible to select one or more products as a gift. Via

*add selected gift product(s) x times automatically to cart*it is possible to set the number of gift items (value > 0). Furthermore a maximum discount value (*Limit to max ($)*) and the maximum number of discounts per order to grant (*Max discounts per order to grant*) can be set. - Cashback Discount
Table 6. Cashback discount Type Trigger Description Cashback None Note:This feature is available for B2C channels only.Grants a fixed discount on the order value corresponding to the earned cashback stored in a cashback promotion code for the respective customer.

A promotion condition is not required, but it is possible to define one if required by the business use case.