---
id: 'bc64a2e278f7a382e62c2f584e4cb779'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2499S2'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:38:28.510588+00:00'
---
Previous Intershop/Enfinity versions had an integrated command-line client. That client had some shortcomings, especially that it could only be used from a working installation (i.e., it was not working standalone), and that is was not easily extensible/customizable.

The new command-line client is created as a standalone tool. It supports the main functions of the old command-line client:

The new CLC is self-contained and can be run from a system without any further Intershop installations. The new client is just *one* way to access this functionality: It interacts with a server-side REST API that can also be used via any other REST client (ultimately, even a browser or cURL would be enough).

Main characteristics:

It is able to trigger new processes based on a job definition and a set of configuration values.

Note

For the moment, it does not fully duplicate the legacy CLC's functionality. E.g., currently the CLC does not support the import of CSV files.

Term | Description |
|---|---|
CLC | Command-Line Client |
REST | Representational State Transfer, a methodology for HTTP-based webservices. |

See also:

The client-side code comprises of a set of classes handling the communication with the server. The parameter handling depends on the calling mechanism.

All client code resides in a self-contained, independent component *tool_clc*, and is installed to *<IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/tools/clc/.* The contents of *<IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/tools/clc/* can be copied to any other system and can run there without an installed Intershop server.

All tasks have to implement `CLCTask`

, which extends the standard Ant `Task`

.

The runjob and import tasks have to communicate with the REST API on the server. For that purpose, the Jersey REST client is used.

As both *import* and *runjob* require access to the Jersey client, `AbstractRestTask`

provides common functionality (handling of parameters like hostname, login etc., basic error handling). Also, as both tasks require handling of JobRO-representations from the server, `AbstractJobClient`

provides common functionality specific to jobs.

`RunJobsTask`

The purpose and implementation of the `RunJobsTask`

are simple:

`JobListResource`

`JobResource`

If not started with `-w false`

, the task will wait for the job to finish and report the execution duration.

`ImportTask`

The import task is just a bit more substantial.

When started, it

`TypedBatchProcessListResource`

for subresources supporting the import of the type from argument `-t`

`JobResource`

If the job finished with an error, the output and the log file will contain the relevant lines from the server impex-log.

The Command-line Client supports the import of the following object types:

Note

Categories can only be imported into an existing catalog.

The Command-line Client supports all import modes available with the Commerce Management application:

Please see * Intershop 7 Managing Online Shops | Chapter 2: Catalogs and Products | Catalog and Product Management: Concepts | Catalog Import and Export | Standard Import Modes* for more detailed information about the import modes.

Tasks can be registered to the command-line client using *isclc.properties *(stored in the same directory as the batch file):

intershop.clc.tasks.runjob = com.intershop.clc.internal.tasks.RunJobsTask intershop.clc.tasks.import = com.intershop.clc.internal.tasks.ImportTask intershop.clc.logging.loglevel = WARN

The command-line client itself basically acts as a wrapper providing parameter handling and interaction handling for the tasks.

This also means that additional tasks can be added at any time.

Running the client without parameters returns a list of registered tasks:

ES1|e:\target\tool_clc\release>isclc Expected command as first parameter. Known commands are: runjob import

Running a task without further parameters returns a parameter overview for the task:

ES1|e:\target\tool_clc\release>isclc runjob The following options are required: -password, -p -domain, -d -host, -h -job, -j Usage: isclc runjob [options] Options: * -domain, -d The domain to which the job belongs. -?, -help Display usage Default: false * -host, -h The target system. Format: IP_or_Name[:Port] -interval, -i If waiting until finished, poll every <n> seconds Default: 1 * -job, -j The job that should be started. -login, -l Default: admin * -password, -p -servergroup, -g The server group at the target system. Default: BOS -wait, -w Wait until finished Default: true

You may enter the parameters directly via the command line. If a parameter contains spaces or special characters quoting is required. On Windows systems use double quotes, on Unix systems use single quotes. Alternatively, you can also provide the parameters via a prepared plain text file:

isclc runjob @AnalyzeDB.parameters

with *AnalyzeDB.parameters* listing the required parameters:

-host 127.0.0.1 ... -j AnalyzeDatabaseSchema

A sample *build.xml* defining the tasks is contained in the cartridge *tool_clc*.

This makes it possible to use the tasks like this:

<target name="AnalyzeDBSchema" depends="clc.init"> <runjob host="127.0.0.1" group="BOS" waituntilfinished="true" login="admin" password="\!InterShop00\!" domain="root" jobname="AnalyzeDatabaseSchema" /> </target>

The */jobs* resource is registered as a sub-resource of the SMC REST API. It can be accessed via `<server>/SMC/-/domains/<someDomain>/jobs`

.

The implementations as well as the resource description ( **.component* files) reside in the new cartridge *app_bo_rest_job*.

`JobListResource`

Method | URI | Parameters | Description | Return value |
|---|---|---|---|---|
GET | /SMC/-/domains/<someDomain>/jobs | List all job configurations for a given domain | Collection<LinkRO> | |
GET | /SMC/-/domains/<someDomain>/jobs | ?state=... | List all job configurations with a given state | Collection<LinkRO> |

POST, PUT, and DELETE will not be supported as they would only be needed for management of job definitions (schedules), which is out of scope for this feature.

`JobResource`

Method | URI | Parameters | Description | Return value |
|---|---|---|---|---|
GET | /SMC/-/domains/<someDomain>/jobs/<jobname> | Get a job info (including state) | JobRO | |
PUT | /SMC/-/domains/<someDomain>/jobs/<jobname> | Content: partial JobRO | Update job definition (e.g., to start a job) | JobRO |

`JobRO`

The `JobRO`

exposes information about the job, including its current status.

The batch process resources are registered as sub-resources of the EnterpriseBackoffice REST API. They can be accessed via `<server>/<Organization-Site>/<ChannelBackoffice-AppUrlID>/batchprocesses`

.

The implementations as well as the resource description ( **.component* files) reside in the new cartridge *app_bo_rest_job*.

The new command-line client allows to retrieve supported batch processes (and thereby include import targets) from the server, including information on the required parameters.

To make it easy to add support for new batch process types to the API, the resources `...ListResource`

, `...Resource`

and their wiring are added automatically. The type-specific handling can be wired using a `BatchProcessHandler`

for a certain type, e.g., `ProductImportHandler extends BatchProcessHandler`

, `CatalogImportHandler extends BatchProcessHandler`

and so on.

Using this generic approach, a cartridge can add a new type by adding the following snippet to its *instances.properties*:

<fulfill requirement="type" of="intershop.EnterpriseBackoffice.RESTAPI.BatchProcessListResource"> <instance with="BatchProcessType" name="intershop.EnterpriseBackoffice.RESTAPI.mycustomimports"> <fulfill requirement="name" value="mycustomimports" /> <fulfill requirement="handler"> <instance with="MyCustomImportHandler" /> </fulfill> </instance> </fulfill>

The `GenericBatchProcessListResource`

and `GenericBatchProcessResource`

are wired to support the given *name*"mycustomimports" in the URI. They automatically generate and use the wired *handler*"MyCustomImportHandler" to provide `OptionROs`

to the client and create new batch processes of the supported type.

The first version of the import resources uses a `PipelineBasedImportHandler extends BatchProcessHandler`

which basically uses the existing pipelines (similar to the old Web service). The pipeline mappings can be configured (and/or extended, replaced) using the Component Framework. In addition, import handlers can be added one at a time for each supported import type, gradually evolving the server-side code away from import pipelines.

`TypedBatchProcessListResource`

Method | URI | Parameters | Description | Return value |
|---|---|---|---|---|
GET | /batchprocesses | List known sub-resources (productimports, catalogimports, ...) | Collection<LinkRO> | |
GET | /batchprocesses | ?type=import&subtype=... | List known sub-resources of type import that can handle a certain subtype (e.g., product, category, ...) | Collection<LinkRO> |

`GenericBatchProcessListResource`

Method | URI | Parameters | Description | Return value |
|---|---|---|---|---|
GET | /batchprocesses/<subResourceName> | List all batchprocesses for this type | Collection<LinkRO> | |
OPTIONS | /batchprocesses/<subResourceName> | Get information on possible ways to work with the resource. | OptionsRO | |
POST | /batchprocesses/<subResourceName> | ParameterRO | Create (and run) a new batchprocess | Location Header pointing to newly created process + LinkRO |

`GenericBatchProcessResource`

Method | URI | Parameters | Description | Return value |
|---|---|---|---|---|
GET | /batchprocesses/<subResourceName>/<processid> | Get information about a process | JobRO |

`OptionsRO`

The `OptionsRO`

should expose information about possible parameters.

The HTTP method *OPTIONS* is explicitly for requesting information about possible actions on a resource. The standard only requires the header *Allow* to be sent in response (with a comma-separated list of allowed HTTP methods for this resource).

However, it does allow to return a response body as well.

An `OptionsRO`

consists of one `ParameterRO`

per supported HTTP method.

{ "methods": { "POST": { "attributes": [ { "name": "loglevel", "type": "String", "value": "["DEBUG", "ERROR", "WARN", "INFO"]" }, { "name": "unitname", "type": "String", "value": "The name of the unit where the import should be done" }, { "name": "description", "value": "Create and start a new batch process of type import" }, { "name": "locale", "type": "String", "value": "The ISO locale code that should be used for the import" }, { "name": "filename", "type": "String", "value": "The name of the file to import" }, { "name": "mode", "type": "String", "value": "["INITIAL", "UPDATE", "DELETE", "IGNORE", "REPLACE"]" }, { "name": "skipValidation", "type": "Boolean", "value": "Set to true to try a direct import without validating the file first" } ], "type": "Parameters" } }, "type": "Options" }

The client reduces the `ParameterRO`

for the corresponding HTTP method and send this as parameters:

{ "type":"Parameters", "loglevel":"DEBUG", "unitname":"PrimeTech-PrimeTechSpecials", ... "testNumber":0, "testArray":[100,200,300] }

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.