---
id: 'bc744961ad27e64c06632e731287a20b'
title: 'Modifying Inherited Parameters of Component Templates'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3241C8'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:59.857807+00:00'
---
# Modifying Inherited Parameters of Component Templates

By default, all parameter values are inherited from the parent objects. However, they can be overloaded on any inheritance level. Overloaded values can be reverted to the original (inherited) value, accordingly.

## Overloading Inherited Parameters

-
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Component Templates.
This opens the Component Templates tree view.
-
Click the name or ID of the component template you intend to edit.
This opens the Content tab of the detail view.
-
In the Parameters section, start editing the intended parameter values.
When editing a value, a pencil icon () next to the value field indicates that this value is not longer inherited but overloaded.
-
Click Apply to save your settings.
Otherwise, click Reset to discard your changes.

## Reverting Overloaded Parameters

-
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Component Templates.
This opens the Component Templates tree view.
-
Click the name or ID of the component template you intend to edit.
This opens the Content tab of the detail view.
-
In the Parameters section, click Revert to Inherited Values.
This displays checkboxes in front of the modified parameters.
-
Select the parameters to be reverted.
Use the checkboxes to select the intended parameters.
-
Click Revert.
The selected parameters are set back to their original (inherited) values.