---
id: 'bcd67a875a13474dfe85d1636c63b464'
title: 'Support Article'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/V29834'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:02.659184+00:00'
---
This article explains the necessary steps to change or add a (specific) property (e.g. `webserverURL`

) when only the implementation partner has access to the required system.

For this, Gradle Deployment Tools provide some features that are applied to the configured file(s) and properties. As an example, this document describes changing the `webserverURL`

, both globally and also domain-specific.

Generally it is recommended to use domain-specific configuration files (if you want to configure the webserver for domains) for each environment.

For changing a global property (e.g. `webserverURL=example.com`

) that is specified in the *appserver.properties* file (located in */server/share/system/config/cluster/*), filters can be used. For details see [Cookbook - Deployment Tools ICM 7.10 | Recipe: Change Deployed File Content With Filters](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1848547085/Cookbook+-+Deployment+Tools+ICM+7.10#Cookbook-DeploymentToolsICM7.10-ApplyContentFilter).

For domain-specific configuration, the following configuration file specifies the relevant domain folder finder settings for the lookup of the domain-specific configuration:

<set finder="domain-folder" scope="domain" matches="^${environment}_${staging.system.type}_[\w&&[^_]]*$" fileExtensions="properties,xml"/> <set finder="domain-folder" scope="domain" matches="^${environment}_[\w&&[^_]]*$" fileExtensions="properties,xml" />

Based on the finder configuration, the following files would be found/match: *[IS_SHARE]/system/config/domains/<domain>/<environment>_<staging.system.type>_<any_identifier>.properties*

For information on how to add domain-specific files with the matching names and correct WebServer URLs as custom files via the deployment, see [Cookbook - Deployment Tools ICM 7.10 | Recipe: Deploy Custom Files](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1848547085/Cookbook+-+Deployment+Tools+ICM+7.10#Cookbook-DeploymentToolsICM7.10-DeployCustomFiles).

Example for configured environment names are:

Directory: *[IS_SHARE]/system/config/domains/*

*./<domain1>/integration_editing_appserver.properties*

*./<domain1>/integration_live_appserver.properties*

*./<domain1>/test_editing_appserver.properties*

*./<domain1>/test_live_appserver.properties*

*./<domain1>/production_editing_appserver.properties*

*./<domain1>/production_live_appserver.properties*

As the changes cannot be applied directly to the target system, it is necessary to use a *deploy.gradle* file in the project. The filters function of Gradle Deployment Tools allows to overwrite the setting ("intershop.WebServerURL") during the deployment. *deploy.gradle* then could then look as follows:

buildscript { dependencies { classpath 'com.intershop:deployment-bootstrap:+' } } apply plugin: com.intershop.deploy.assembly.TargetPlugin apply plugin: com.intershop.deploy.infrastructure.InfrastructureDeploymentPlugin deployment{ filters { overrideProperties('setWebserverURL') { dir = target.shareDirectory include 'system/config/cluster/appserver.properties' properties['intershop.WebServerURL'] = 'https://www.example1.com:8080' } } }

The domain-specific files with the matching names and correct `webserverURL`

can be added as content via the deployment.

To follow the additional (domain-specific) approach, use a "CustomProperty" (here: `DomainSpecificProperties`

) to copy your custom file to the target.

deployment{ files { DomainSpecificProperties { // Copy a single file from the root project from new File(projectDir, 'uatedit_Url.properties') // Define target of the copy operation into new File(target.shareDirectory, 'system/config/domains/<yourSite>/') } } }

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.