---
id: 'bde9b55ed365325054687187f7c33bb6'
title: 'Video Tutorial'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/287Q77'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:39:33.564848+00:00'
---
Welcome to Intershop’s Tutorial *Prepare Your Artifact Repository Server.* In this tutorial we want to show you how to prepare a local Nexus Artifact Repository server as a central tool to deploy servers in a CI environment.

This tutorial is related to the [Video Tutorial - Simple Setup of a Development-System (valid to 7.10)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1851724857).

The setup of a CI infrastructure with CI servers and version control system are not part of this tutorial. The following artifact repository servers are available and work with the Intershop Continous delivery tools: the Sonatype Nexus, JFrog Artifactory and Apache Archiva. In this tutorial we only installed and started the Sonatype Nexus.

Info

In this tutorial we use Sonatype Nexus 2.x.


In this tutorial we want to prepare a local artifact repository server that will be used for the deployment of the Intershop Commerce Management (see also: [Video Tutorial - Simple Setup of a Development-System (valid to 7.10)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1851724857)).

For this tutorial we already installed and started the Artifact Repository Sonatype Nexus. Now start with the following:

Start with all proxy repositories (according to 3.3.1.1, 3.3.1.3): Enter the ID, the Name and the Remote Storage Location from *Central*, *JCenter **and Intershop. Intershop **ivy and intershop maven* are no longer relevant.

Note

As of March 31, 2021, JCenter no longer provides new artifacts. Therefore Gradle deprecated the jCenter repository configuration and will remove this in the next major version. Intershop switched for new artifacts also to Maven Central.

What is necessary for the future? Add to your Maven repository configuration parallel to the JCenter configuration a configuration for Maven Central.

You need an authentication for the *Intershop.Proxy.Repository* -> Login and Username are defined in the S*upport Contract Details.*

Note

Please make sure that *Discovery* is unchecked in the routing tab.

Modify the *build.gradle* file under * intershop-cisetup-template-master. *

setupDirectory = '/home/intershop1/intershop-cisetup-sources' repoBaseURL = 'http://localhost:8081/nexus/content' projectName = 'a_responsive'

`./gradlew intershopCISetupAll`

`disableSCM = true`

Execute the following commands with special configuration-parameters:

./gradlew publish -PrunOnCI=true -PreleaseURL=http://localhost:8081/nexus/content/repositories/distributions/ -PrepoUserName=ish_deploy -PrepoUserPasswd=intershop -PscmVersionExt=RELEASE

Info

You will need the URL of the corporate distribution .zip file later in the project as distribution URL in the gradle wrapper properties files.

Publish the already existing oracle project to the Nexus.

Prepare the build of the Cartridge with Oracle JDBC driver libraries.

`./gradlew publish -PreleaseURL=`[http://localhost:8081/nexus/content/repositories/releases/](http://localhost:8081/nexus/content/repositories/releases/) -PrepoUserName=ish_deploy -PrepoUserPasswd=intershop

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.