---
id: 'be6f754a66941fcd13c88a807d2b1600'
title: 'Reference'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/Y24843'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:38:47.172472+00:00'
---
This reference for developers is an excerpt of all common type codes in Enfinity Suite 6 and Intershop 7.

This document uses the following conventions:

Data type for attribute type: int required

| Type | Meaning |
|---|---|
| 0 | still no type |
| 1 | int |
| 2 | double |
| 3 | string |
| 4 | multiple int |
| 5 | multiple double |
| 6 | multiple string |
| 7 | object |

| Type | Meaning |
|---|---|
| 8 | long |
| 9 | boolean |
| 10 | date |
| 11 | decimal |
| 12 | money |
| 13 | quantity |
| 14 | text |
| 15 | multiple long |
| 16 | multiple boolean |
| 17 | multiple date |
| 18 | multiple decimal |

Related Source:

Data type for attribute typeCode: int

Account/Owner TypeCodes are described as follows:

Numeric type codes can be used to distinguish different types of accounts for UI purposes

TypeCode / Owner

for Procurement:

| Type Code | Meaning |
|---|---|
1 | User:Profile |
2 | Department |
3 | CostCenter |
4 | Contract |

for Affiliate:

50 | AffiliatePartner |
50 | AffiliateProgram |

since 6.2 until 7.1:

60 | Bonus Point account |

since 6.5:

80 | Promotion Account |

Data type for attribute typeCode: int readonly

Account Transaction TypeCodes (TransactionTypes) - Source: Pipeline comments:

Type Code | Meaning |
|---|---|
0 | (undefined, fallback for standard TypeCode in Pipelet CreateAccountTransaction) |
1 | Manually created account transaction |
2 | Product line item debit transaction |
3 | Requisition debit transaction |
4 | Product line item credit transaction (caused by cancel) |
5 | Requisition credit transaction (caused by cancel) |
6 | Requisition credit transaction (caused by reject) |
7 | Product line item credit transaction (caused by reject) |
8 | Service line item debit transaction |
9 | Service line item credit transaction |

for Affiliate Accounts:

50 | Affiliate Transaction |

for Bonus Point Accounts:

60 | Manual Change |
61 | Grant Pending Points |
62 | Make Pending Points Redeemable |
63 | Cancel Pending Points |
64 | Grant Redeemable Points |
65 | Redeem Points |
66 | Undo Redeeming Points |

Data type for attribute typeCode: int required

"type code handling is futile because of no typecode will be set"

There are no pre-defined type codes for alerts

Currently it is not used in the standard product

The alert handler class is at the moment more important

Data type for attribute TypeCode: int required

It is originally meant to have way to distinguish between attribute groups for different objects.

The type code can be used to distinguish between several types of attribute groups, i.e., product and category attribute groups.

There are no pre-defined values

not used

related sources IS7:

Data type for attribute typeCode: int

This attribute defines the type of the auction (i.e., one of English, Dutch, forward or reverse). The TypeCode is just copied from the assigned auction definition to avoid performance critical joins when searching for auctions of a defined type.

see [Reference - Type Codes (With Migration Hints From Enfinity Suite 6 to Intershop 7)#AUCTIONDEFINITION](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-TypeCodes(WithMigrationHintsFromEnfinitySuite6toIntershop7)-AUCTIONDEFINITION)

Related Source IS 7.3.2:

Data type for attribute typeCode: int

predefined values:

| Type Code | Meaning |
|---|---|
| 0 | reserved for operations with all types |
| 1 | AUCTION_TYPE_FORWARD |
| 2 | AUCTION_TYPE_REVERSE |

Related Sources 7.3.2:

Data type for attribute typeCode: int = 0

The typecode of the addresses is coded bit-wise as follows:

isInvoiceToAddress return (getTypeCode() & 1) != 0; isShipToAddress return (getTypeCode() & 2) != 0; isShipFromAddress() return (getTypeCode() & 4) != 0;

Type Code - bit wise | Meaning |
|---|---|
1 = 001 | invoice-to address |
2 = 010 | ship-to address |
3 = 011 | invoice-to and ship-to-address |
4 = 100 | ship-from address |
5 = 101 | ship-from and invoice-to address |
6 = 110 | ship-from and ship-to address |
7 = 111 | invoice-to address, ship-from address and ship-to address |
8 = 1000 | service-to address (new in 6.2) |
16 = 1 0000 | install-to address (new in 6.2) |
28 = 1 1100 | ship-from, service-to and install-to address |
31 = 1 1111 | invoice-to address, ship-from address, ship-to address, service-to and install-to address |
32 = 10 0000 | store address (new in 6.2) |
34 = 10 0010 | store address and ship-to address |

These type codes are used for all basic addresses, thus for user address, department address, and organization address.

Deprecated!

Although type codes still may be set and changed, they are not really used anymore.

Information about the usage of addresses is now stored as custom attributes.

You see this information because remnants of legacy code still manipulate it. It is not used in the storefront though.

Ignore the type code field unless you have a very compelling reason not to do so.

Data type for attribute typeCode: int = 0

The typeCode of a profile is necessary to distinguish between a profile of a 'real' user, profile of a unit or a customer.

The profile type codes are set as follows:

Type Code | Meaning |
|---|---|
0 | User Profile |
1 | Domain Profile (default type code, here also all organizations have their profiles) |
2 | Department Profile |
| 3 | Customer profile |

Related sources:

Data type for attribute type: int

Although named type, the attribute works like a type code.

The numeric budget type code is used to distinguish different types of budgets for UI purposes. Currently two different type codes are defined for interval and schedule budgets.

In the promotion context, the type is set to 1 ( BUDGET_TYPE_SCHEDULE) by default.

| Type | Meaning |
|---|---|
| 0 | for all types |
| 1 | scheduled type: The budget has a defined start and end date. The budget is only valid and redeemable during this time period. In the promotion context, the start and end dates of the budget are identical to the start and end dates of the promotion. |
| 2 | interval type: The budget has a defined interval that repeats itself. These intervals can be, for instance: weekly, monthly, quarterly, etc. |

Related Source

bc_organization/edl/com/intershop/component/organization/internal/budget/BudgetPO.edl

Data type for attribute typeCode: int

| Type Code | Meaning | Remark |
|---|---|---|
| 0 | for operations that handle all types | |
| 1 | Standard Catalog | |
| 2 | Classification Catalog | |
| 3 | External Catalog | Not used in IS7 |
| 4 | Shared Catalog | |
| 5 | Private Catalog | Not used in IS7 |
| 6 | Auction Catalog | Not used in IS7 |
| 7 | General Pages Catalog | Not used in IS7 |
| 10 | Amazon Catalog | only Enfinity Suite 6 |
| 40 | Forum catalog | only Enfinity Suite 6 |

Related Source

Data type for attribute typeCode: int = 1 required

There is only one defined type code in Enfinity Suite 6:

TypeCode | Meaning |
|---|---|
1 | Plain |

Catalog Category link type codes are now realized using the type code definitions.

Each CatalogCategoryLink has a typeCode. All the typeCodes used by CatalogCategoryLink need to be defined by TypeCodeDefinitions.

The TypeCodeDefinitions must have a TypeCodeDefinition:Group equal to constant CatalogCategoryLink:TypeCodeDefinitionGroup.

To ensure uniqueness of the TypeCodeDefinition:Name the following naming convention should be used: Use the project name as a prefix for the type code name, followed by an underscore. Standard Enfinity will have to use "ES_" as prefix for its type code names.

Data type for attribute typeCode: String (in the Java interface only this type code attribute is available)

Data type for attribute typeCodeInteger int required — this attribute refers to the database table column TYPECODE

constant TypeCodeDefinitionGroup : string = "CatalogCategoryLink";

Related Sources

Data type for attribute channelTypeCode: int searchable

The type code used to mark a channel repository is of the following type

| Channel Type Code | Meaning |
|---|---|
| 32 | Partner Channel |
| 42 | Business Channel (until 6.4) |
| 52 | Consumer Channel + SMB channel (IS7) |
| 62 | Content Channel (old CMS until 6.4) |

Channel & Repositories TypeCodes are coded based on the Organizations:

Type Code Organization | Type Code Channel/Repository | Meaning |
|---|---|---|
10 | Operations Organization | |
20 | Enterprise/Root Selling Organization | |
| 21 | Enterprise Master Repository | |
| 22 | Recycle Bin Repository | |
| 27 | Content Sharing Relation Proxy Repository | |
| 30 | Partner Organization | |
| 32 | Partner Channel | |
| 40 | Buying Organization | |
| 42 | Business Channel (until 6.4) | |
| 50 | Anonymous Consumer Organization | |
| 52 | Consumer Channel | |
| 53 | Application Specific Objects Repository (cms, ...) | |
| 62 | Content Channel (old CMS until 6.4) |

Database Tables:

Data type for attribute typeCode: int

Only type code 0 is used at the moment.

no pre-defined values

| Type Code | Meaning |
|---|---|
| 0 | Untyped ? |

Data type for attribute typeCode: int

| Type Code | Meaning |
|---|---|
| 20 | CONTRACT_TYPE |
| 21 | SHAREDCONTRACT_TYPE |

Related source:

Data type for attribute typeCode: int

The usage is the same as in [Reference - Type Codes (With Migration Hints From Enfinity Suite 6 to Intershop 7)#PRODUCT](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-TypeCodes(WithMigrationHintsFromEnfinitySuite6toIntershop7)-PRODUCT).

Please note: the possibly changed type code compared to the base code is displayed as if it was the same offer type (offered or not offered) as in the source product.

However, all shared products are always handled as offered products using ProductViewImpl.

Data type for attribute typeCode: int required

The type code of this domain. Depending on its value, this domain represents the system domain, a site or a mere unit. It is composed by the composition of three bits that can be found in DomainConstants.

Domain TypeCodes are coded bit-wise too.

Type Code - bit wise | Meaning |
|---|---|
4 = 100 | System Domain Bit |
2 = 010 | Site Bit |
1 = 001 | Unit Bit |

Database Tables:

Related source:

core/javasource/com/intershop/beehive/core/capi/domain/DomainConstants.java

Data type for attribute typeCode: int

describes the handled object type

| Type Code | Meaning |
|---|---|
| 0 | for operations with all types |
| 1 | CatalogCategoryPO |

Related source:

bc_mvc/javasource/com/intershop/component/mvc/capi/filter/CatalogFilterConstants.java

Data type of column NUMBER(*,0) NOT NULL

no referring PO

It has been a part of import tracking tables for SQL loader import of products, so it is not used in IS7 anymore.

Type code values here were the same as defined for the product (see [Reference - Type Codes (With Migration Hints From Enfinity Suite 6 to Intershop 7)#PRODUCT](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-TypeCodes(WithMigrationHintsFromEnfinitySuite6toIntershop7)-PRODUCT)).

Please note: Since introduction of XML attributes for the PRODUCT table, products are not imported anymore via SQL loader. So this table is not in use anymore since version 6.3.

Related sources:

Data type for attribute typeCode: int required

Persistent object: CommentPO

By the use of the attribute TypeCode the scope of the comment can be defined.

The scope is defined as a bit mask

This table lists the pre-defined values:

| Type Code - bit wise | Meaning |
|---|---|
| 1= 0000 0001 | PRC_SCOPE_BUYER |
| 2= 0000 0010 | PRC_SCOPE_APPROVER |
| 4= 0000 0100 | PRC_SCOPE_ORDERMGR |
| 8= 0000 1000 | PRC_SCOPE_SUPPLIER |
| 16 = 0001 0000 | UCM_BUSINESSUNIT_DATAREPLICATIONMGR |
| 32= 0010 0000 | UCM_SYSTEM_DATAREPLICATIONMGR |
| 64= 0100 0000 | PRC_SCOPE_SELLER |
| 128 = 1000 0000 | PRC_SCOPE_SOURCINGMGR |

Related source

Actually used are at least in parts of Enfinity Suite 6 and Intershop 7 different values

Replication comments:

| Type Code | Meaning |
|---|---|
| 8 | comment on replication task on enterprise or channel level |
| 16 | comment on replication task on Operations (system) level |

Other types are still available in the pipeline OrderStatusTracking and also do not confirm with the values in the CommentsConstants class.

It looks like this feature is nowhere used anymore.

Hard coded type codes are: 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 30, 31 and there is a possibility to provide a custom type code as well.

Please note: The pipeline OrderStatusTracking is still part of the code basis of Intershop 7 but may be not in use anymore.

More related sources:

Data type for attribute typeCode: int

Description: by the use of the attribute typeCode the scope of the journal entry can be defined.

type code not used

no pre-defined values

The table is used for the message body of messages in the es6 procurement part.

| Type Code | Meaning |
|---|---|
1 | message sent via message center |
| 2 | user registration event |

not used anymore

Data type for attribute typeCode: int required

Part of the shipping fame work implementation in Enfinity Suite 6.

Referring PO: MethodCalculationModelPO

The type codes are set as follows:

Type Code | Meaning |
|---|---|
0 | Unknown |
1 | Amount Model |
2 | Fixed Model |
3 | Unit Model |
4 | Weight Model |

Still referenced in the code until version 7.2, but not used anymore.

Data type for attribute typeCode: int searchable

TypeCodes of Organizations, see also [Concept - Organization](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1767179249/Concept+-+Organization):

Type Code | Meaning |
|---|---|
10 | "Operations" organization of the site SLDSystem |
20 | Root organization (enterprise or sales organization) |
30 | Partner organization |
40 | Buying organization |
50 | Anonymous organization of a consumer channel |

Database Tables:

ORGANIZATION.TYPECODE

For the relation to the channel type and repository type codes, see [Relations between Organization Repository and Channel type codes](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-TypeCodes(WithMigrationHintsFromEnfinitySuite6toIntershop7)-RelationsbetweenOrganization,RepositoryandChanneltypecodes)

Data type for attribute typeCode: int searchable

Persistent Object: OrganizationUserGroupAssignmentPO

type code is not used

no pre-defined values

Data type for attribute typeCode: int

Persistent object: PriceDefinitionProductAssignmentPO

In this table product assignment for scaled prices outside of price lists is stored.

This is used in the procurement scenario.

The type codes are the same as in [Reference - Type Codes (With Migration Hints From Enfinity Suite 6 to Intershop 7)#PRICESCALETABLE](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-TypeCodes(WithMigrationHintsFromEnfinitySuite6toIntershop7)-PRICESCALETABLE)

Objects and tables are still there but it is not used .

Data type for attribute priceType: string<256> required

Uses the name of a TypeCodeDefinition to define the type of the price list type

Type defnition group: PriceList

In the standard system are supported the following price types:

To avoid disambiguation, please note that the API-s also expose price types which are different than the values defined in the PriceList group. These types are used to bound a specific name to a price list provider which resolves the actual price. Supported are:


These types are defined in *com.intershop.component.product.pricing.capi.CommonPriceTypes*. Custom projects may define their own price types which are bound to specific price list providers and use them when customizing the back office and the storefront applications.

Related source:

bc_warranty/javasource/com/intershop/component/warranty/internal/price/ES_WarrantyPrice.java

- xcs/javasource/com/intershop/beehive/xcs/internal/price/ES_SalePrice.java

xcs/javasource/com/intershop/beehive/xcs/internal/price/ES_CostPrice.java

xcs/javasource/com/intershop/beehive/xcs/internal/price/ES_ListPrice.java

Data type for attribute typeCode: int

| Type Code | Meaning |
|---|---|
| 0 | reserved for operations that affect all type codes |
| 1 | amount |
| 2 | percentage |
| 3 | quantity triggered surcharge |
| 4 | value triggered surcharge |

Related source: bc_pricing/javasource/com/intershop/component/pricing/capi/scale/PriceScaleEntryConstants.java

These type codes are used and supported by IS7.

Data type for attribute typeCode: int

Price Scale Table type codes are defined as follows:

Type Code | Meaning |
|---|---|
1 | Scaled Product List Price |
2 | Scaled Product Group Price |
3 | Contract List Price |
4 | Contract Scaled List Price |
5 | Small Scale Surcharge |
100 | Custom Price Definition |

Any other number, for example, 10 or 34, are combinations of the listed codes. 10 means a combination of 2 and 8; 34 means a combination of 32 and 2.

Related source:

[ See also https://intranet.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/1C0402 ](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/1C0402)

**IS7 Note**: Currently Contract List Price and Contract Scaled List Price are not supported by the standard product.

Data type for attribute typeCode: int

In this table the product assignment for scaled prices for price lists is stored´

The type codes are the same as in [Reference - Type Codes (With Migration Hints From Enfinity Suite 6 to Intershop 7)#PRICESCALETABLE](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-TypeCodes(WithMigrationHintsFromEnfinitySuite6toIntershop7)-PRICESCALETABLE)

**Note on IS7**: Currently not used in the standard product but nevertheless maintained.

This attribute however is stored by auditing the object

Source 7.3.2: Reference - Auditing (7.3) [https://intranet.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/T24086](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/T24086)

Data type for attribute typeCode: int = 0 observable

ProductItems, ProductBundles, ProductMasters and Offers are distinguished using a typeCode.

Product type codes are defined as bit mask:

Type Code - bit wise | Meaning |
|---|---|
1 = 0 0000 0001 | Offer |
2 = 0 0000 0010 | Item |
4 = 0 0000 0100 | Bundle |
8 = 0 0000 1000 | Bundled |
16 = 0 0001 0000 | Master |
32 = 0 0010 0000 | Mastered |
64 = 0 0100 0000 | Offered |
128 = 0 1000 0000 | Retail Set |
256 = 1 0000 0000 | Part of Retail Set |

They can be combined as needed, for example:

Related source:

**Note for IS7:** The offer flag is obsolete and has no special semantics in IS7. Nevertheless, it is still used by order processing code which supports order routing. This is a feature that is not relevant in IS7. If the offer flag is not maintained, the code will break and unexpected results may occur.

Note:

The product configuration feature is not available in the standard product. Nevertheless, the code that implements the feature is shipped with IS7 so that partners are supported. Apart from that the standard IS7 maintains no rows in the product configuration tables.

Data type of attribute validatorType: string<256> required;

Persistent object: ProductConfigurationValidator

Uses the name of a TypeCodeDefinition to define the type of the product configuration validator.

Type definition group: ProductConfigurationValidator

Related source:

Note:

Data type of attribute type: string < 256 >

Persistent object: ProductConfigurationOptionPO

Uses the name of a TypeCodeDefinition to define the type of the product configuration option.

Type definition group: ProductConfigurationValueType

Related source:

Data type of attribute typeCode: int required

This table contains data of syndication product mapping rules; the same type codes as [Reference - Type Codes (With Migration Hints From Enfinity Suite 6 to Intershop 7)#PRODUCTDATAMAPPINGRULE](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-TypeCodes(WithMigrationHintsFromEnfinitySuite6toIntershop7)-PRODUCTDATAMAPPINGRULE)

Related source:

Data type of attribute typeCode: int required

This table contains data of syndication product mapping rules

| Type Code | Meaning |
|---|---|
| 1 | Source list |
| 2 | Target list |

Related source:

Data type of attribute typeCode: int required

This table contains data of syndication product mapping rules. The type codes are hard coded in templates and pipelines.

| Type Code | Meaning |
|---|---|
| 1 | product id mapping |
| 2 | product attribute mapping |
| 3 | product category mapping |
| 4 | product price mapping |
| 5 | product attachment mapping |
| 6 | product replacement mapping |
| 7 | attribute group mapping |
| 8 | product classification mapping |
| 9 | product link mapping |
| 10 | product variation mapping |
| 11 | product bundle assignment mapping |
| 12 | product retail set assignment mapping |

Related source:

Data type for attribute typeCode: int = 1 required

Product type codes are defined as follows:

Type Code | Meaning |
|---|---|
1 | Default |
1 | Cross-selling |
2 | Replacement Product |
3 | Up-Selling |
4 | Accessory |
5 | Follow-Up |
6 | Different Order Unit |
7 | Spare Parts |
8 | Other |

Data type for attribute typeCode: String (in the Java interface only this type code attribute is available)

Data type for attribute typeCodeInteger int required — this attribute refers to the database table column TYPECODE

Product link type codes are now realized using the type code definitions.

Each ProductLink has a typeCode. All the typeCodes used by ProductLink need to be defined by TypeCodeDefinitions.

The TypeCodeDefinitions must have a TypeCodeDefinition:Group equal to constant ProductLink:TypeCodeDefinitionGroup.

To ensure uniqueness of the TypeCodeDefinition:Name, the following naming convention should be used: Use the project name as a prefix for the type code name, followed by an underscore. Standard Enfinity will have to use "ES_" as prefix for its type code names.

Attention: The CAPI interface ProductLink deals only with the string representations of typeCodes (TypeCodeDefinition:Name).

constant TypeCodeDefinitionGroup : string = "ProductLink";

Related Sources

Data type for attribute typeCode: int required

Used for lists of products like wish lists, shopping lists, etc.

Attribute type code is the Type coder of the product list. Can be used to distinguish different kinds of lists.

Product list type codes are defined as follows:

Type Code | Meaning |
|---|---|
0 | Untyped |
1 | Bookmarks |
2 | Wishlist |
3 | Shoppinglist |
4 | Quote |

Related source:

Product lists are currently used only for wish lists. The ORMWishlistBORepositoryImpl in IS7 creates all wish lists as untyped lists (type code 0). The type code is not relevant anymore although there are still pipelines that refer to it.

These pipelines are still there and able to create shopping lists (requisition templates) and quotes, but they are not used anyhow in the standard product

This pipeline creates a quote with code 4 (business extension)

Related other sources:

Data type for attribute typeCode: string <256> required

The type code of the product list event is a string like 'Approved', 'Accepted', 'Cancelled'.

Implemented into quotes (type codes are equal to the event names defined in QuoteConstants, meaning can be deducted from the type code value)

| Type Code |
|---|
| AcceptedByApprover |
| AcceptedBySeller |
| ApprovedByApprover |
| AutoAccepted |
| CancelledByApprover |
| CancelledBySeller |
| ClosedByBuyer |
| CreatedByBuyer |
| RefusedByApprover |
| RespondedByApprover |
| RespondedBySeller |
| SubmittedToApprover |
| SubmittedToSeller |

Related Sources:

bc_mvc/staticfiles/cartridge/queries/quote/SearchQuotesByDomain.query

bc_mvc/staticfiles/cartridge/queries/quote/SearchQuotesByOwner.query

bc_mvc/staticfiles/cartridge/queries/quote/SearchQuotesByOwningDomain.query

Currently not used.

Data type for attribute typeCode: int

For product mapping rules in the procurement part

This class represents a single product mapping rule instance that can be applied to catalogs and offer repositories.

A product mapping rule is used to map offered products that suffice specified rule conditions to a target catalog category.

The search mechanism is based on the MultiSite Platform SearchQueryFramework with WebForms.

So all search conditions are held as webform parameters.

type code not used

Currently has no meaning in the standard product.

For product mapping rules in the old procurement, based on stored web forms and the old query framework

Related source:

Data type for attribute typeCode: int required

| Type Code | Meaning |
|---|---|
| 1 | word |
| 2 | (Probably later) regex |

Data type for attribute typeCode: int

Enfinity Suite 6

| Type Code | Meaning |
|---|---|
| 1 | discount |
| 2 | reusable coupon |
| 3 | unique coupon |

Related sources:

typeCode is now marked as deprecated

Data type for atribute typeCode: int

The type code indicating the sort of object to be rated

| Type Code | Meaning |
|---|---|
| 1 | Product |

Related sources

typeCode attribute is now deprecated — dedicated assignment tables are used instead

Data type of attribute typeCode: int

Rebate type codes are defined as follows:

Type Code | Meaning |
|---|---|
0 | no rule assigned |
1 | no condition |
2 | order value condition |
4 | product number condition |
8 | small surcharge |
16 | abandoned basket condition |

Related sources:

bc_marketing/javasource/com/intershop/component/marketing/capi/rebate/DiscountConditionToDiscountActionMappingHelper.java

prc_buyer_site/staticfiles/cartridge/pipelines/ProcessSmallScaleSurchargeRebate.xml

sld_ch_base/staticfiles/cartridge/pipelines/ProcessRebateRule.xml

sld_ch_base/staticfiles/cartridge/pipelines/ViewPromotion.xml

deprecated?

Data type of argument typeCode: int

Description of the field says: condition is an operator condition

bit mask for operator types

| Type Code | Meaning |
|---|---|
| 0 | Defines a condition as 'normal' condition |
| 1 | Defines a condition as operator |
| 2 | Defines a condition as grouping operator |
| 4 | Defines a condition as type group operator |

Related source:

Data type of argument typeCode: int

| Type Code | Meaning |
|---|---|
| 0 | For operations affecting all types |
| 1 | Offer repository |
| 2 | Product repository |
| 3 | Contract repository |
| 21 | Enterprise master repository |
| 22 | Recycle bin repository - in MVCatalogConstants: REPOSITORY_TYPE_CHANNEL |
| 32 | Partner channel repository |
| 42 | Business channel repository (es6) |
| 52 | Consumer channel repository+ SMB channel repository (IS7) |
| 62 | Content Channel repository |

Related sources:

For the relation to the channel type and repository type codes see [Relations Between Organization Repository and Channel Type Codes. ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-TypeCodes(WithMigrationHintsFromEnfinitySuite6toIntershop7)-RelationsbetweenOrganization,RepositoryandChanneltypecodes)

Data type for attribute typeCode: int = 0 required

| Type Code | Meaning |
|---|---|
| 0 | Initial type code for RequisitionAWFStep after creation |
| 1 | step by user |
| 2 | Step by role Type code for RequisitionAWFStep after setRole(). This indicates that getRole() returns a valid value |
| 3 | Step by relative role Type code for RequisitionAWFStep after setRelative(). This indicates that getRelativeRole() and getRelativePath() return valid values. |

Related sources

Data type for attribute typeCode: int

no predefined values

not used

Data type for attribute typeCode: int

See at [Reference - Type Codes (With Migration Hints From Enfinity Suite 6 to Intershop 7)#BASICADDRESS](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Reference-TypeCodes(WithMigrationHintsFromEnfinitySuite6toIntershop7)-BASICADDRESS).

Data type for attribute typeCode: int required

Contains type code definitions that can be used with the type codes framework.

There are type code groups that can have defined several type code names.

Every type code name gets assigned an integer type code value that is stored in its typeCode attribute.

The integer value itself is not guaranteed to be constant for a certain name and group over versions or different installations.

So the lookup for the type code definition of a typed object should always be done by group and name via the TypeCodeDefinition.

The assigned type code definition will be stored in the typed object as the integer value in the typeCode attribute of the object or as the type definition name in an attribute of type String.

Data Type for attribute typeCodeInteger : int required column "TYPECODE"

Persistent Object: TypedProductCategoryAssignment

The integer typeCode of the TypedProductCategoryAssignment

This is a TypeCodeDefinition:TypeCode out of the TypeCodeDefinitions with TypeCodeDefinition:Group equal to constant TypedProductCategoryAssignment:TypeCodeDefinitionGroup. Attention: The CAPI interface TypedProductCategoryAssignment deals only with the string representations of typeCodes (TypeCodeDefinition:Name).

Type code group: TypedProductCategoryAssignment

Related Source:

Data type of attribute typeCode: int searchable

The type code for custom delegations

Custom delegations handle different types on their own.

| Type Code | Meaning |
|---|---|
| 1 | Buying delegation |
| 2 | Approval delegation |
| 10 | Custom Delegation |

Related sources:

Data type for attribute typeCode: int

Not used.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.