---
id: 'c09e466b47dfec7a994e024847319f31'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2D8745'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:37:51.196012+00:00'
---
*Intershop Order Management (IOM)* has the ability to add additional information to various business objects, e.g., for return requests, with the help of predefined custom properties. This document describes the basic concepts of custom properties and the configuration of predefined custom properties within the IOM.

This document is aimed at project developers.

| Term | Description |
|---|---|
| IOM | The abbreviation for Intershop Order Management |

As a concept of customization, the IOM uses custom properties in order to add additional information to various business objects. The following objects are based on this concept:

The concept also provides the ability to store additional information in the form of property group, property key and property value.

| Value | Description |
|---|---|
| property group | The property group can be used to group/categorize the properties. |
| property key | The property key is the identifier of the custom property . It has to be unique per property group. |
| property value | The property value is used to store the custom information. |

Because it may be necessary or helpful under certain circumstances (e.g., custom additional information is useful or required), the IOM extended the concept of custom properties by having the ability to configure a predefined property group, property key pairs in a shop and business object-related context. For further details, please see the [Cookbook - IOM Configure Predefined Custom Properties](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1859660321/Cookbook+-+IOM+Configure+Predefined+Custom+Properties).

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.