---
id: 'c0acab796627ae52d7799ac18ccda6e0'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2G9985'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:36:57.409388+00:00'
---
A newsletter subscription is offered to customers to provide information and also to support customer commitment.

Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) comes with a simple out-of-the-box newsletter subscription service that allows you to manage registrations within the ICM and export the list of registered customers to third-party systems.

It is also possible to replace this basic solution with a direct connection to an external e-mail marketing service/tool. Fur this purpose, ICM provides the *EmailMarketingProvider* interface which has to be implemented. This is described in the next section.

The * EmailMarketingProvider *interface is an abstract Java class that defines the basic methods for newsletter subscription services:

`memberExists(email)`

: returns `true`

or `false`

of an e-mail already registered for newsletter

`addSubscription(email)`

: registers an e-mail for newsletter

`changeSubscriberEmail(oldEmail, newEmail)`

: changes e-mail of a subscription from `oldEmail`

to `newEmail`


`removeSubscription(email)`

: unregisters an e-mail for newsletter/remove subscription

`sendAbandonedBasketMessage(email)`

: sends an e-mail to the customer whose basket has been abandoned for a certain time (configurable)

`ping()`

: test the connection to an external service

This class is implemented/extended by concrete subclasses:

`EmailMarketingStdMgrImpl`

(`ac_email_marketing_std`

) for the Standard Newsletter Subscription Service

Example: `CustomEmailMarketingProviderImpl`

(`ac_email_marketing_custom`

) for a custom e-mail marketing provider

…

Only one *EmailMarketingProvider* implementation can be active per ICM channel.

The *EmailMarketingProviderDefinition *interface defines methods to access important configuration values:

The Standard Newsletter Subscription Service is described in detail in the following section. For a description of how to connect to an external newsletter subscription service, see [Cookbook - E-Mail Marketing / Newsletter Subscription](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48522691261/Cookbook+-+E-Mail+Marketing+Newsletter+Subscription).

This paragraph is valid for ICM version 7.10.16.1 and higher.

Intershop Commerce Management provides the * Newsletter Subscription Service*, which allows you to manage registrations and export the list of registered customers to third-party systems. Customers can register anonymously with their e-mail address or as a registered customer in their

Newsletter Process:

The following sections describe how the Newsletter Subscription Service works in general and how to configure the system.

If the newsletter subscription service is not active, the newsletter overview page displays the following message:

To activate the newsletter feature, perform the following steps:

Select the channel from the context selection box.

Go to *Preferences | E-mail Marketing.*

Select the e-mail marketing provider from the drop down list.

The name of this provider is *Newsletter Subscription Service*.

Enter the following link to the provider tool: `http://localhost/`


Enter "1" as abandoned basket timeout.

These values are not used by the subscription service, but they are still there for compatibility reasons.

Click *Apply.*

The provider is now registered and can be used.

Logged-in customers can enable or disable the newsletter subscription in the storefront in their *My Account* area under *Profile Settings | Edit your profile.*

Checking the *Yes, please send me newsletters and notify me of sales and promotions* checkbox and saving the changes activates the subscription. Unchecking the checkbox will unsubscribe the customer from the newsletter.

The customer's e-mail address then appears in Intershop Commerce Management at channel level under *Marketing | Newsletter* with an unconfirmed status.

Unregistered storefront visitors can subscribe anonymously by entering their e-mail address in the input field in the footer of the storefront. After a syntax check of the e-mail address, the storefront displays a confirmation dialog and the e-mail address is registered.

With this form of registration, storefront visitors cannot remove their entries themselves, but must contact the customer service representative by e-mail or phone. The customer service representative then has to go to *Marketing | Newsletter* at channel level to search for the customer's e-mail address and delete the entry.

If a newsletter subscription confirmation is required, for example via double opt-in, the confirmation feature has to be enabled in Intershop Commerce Management at channel level under *Marketing | Newsletter* in the *Settings* tab.

Depending on the confirmation status, the table in the *Subscriptions* tab that shows all registered customers contains additional columns.

If the confirmation in the *Settings* tab is enabled, the columns *Confirmed, Last Modified Date* and *Editor* are visible in the *Subscriptions* tab. *Editor* is the user that manually confirmed the e-mail-address.

The confirmation feature can for example be used as a double opt-in process in a manual way. Once a customer has subscribed to a newsletter, a manual process can be initiated to send an email requesting confirmation of the subscription. After receiving a positive response, the subscription can be manually confirmed in the *Newsletter *overview table. If the status in the *Confirmed* column is green, the subscriber can receive marketing notifications.

If the confirmation setting is disabled, the *Confirmed, Last Modified Date* and *Editor* columns are not displayed in the* Subscriptions *tab.

To export all confirmed e-mail addresses, perform the following steps:

On channel level, go to *Marketing | Newsletter.*

In the *Subscriptions* tab, click the *Export* button to trigger the export of all confirmed e-mail addresses.

Enter a file name for the export.

Click *Export*.

After the export has finished, you can download the subscriber data as a CSV file from the *Status *section.

This file contains data of all registered customers, as shown in the following example:

EMail;CreationDate;Confirmed;LastModified;Editor patricia@test.intershop.de;2019-11-06;true;2019-11-18;admin

If the confirmation feature is enabled, only confirmed e-mail addresses are exported. If the feature is disabled, all e-mail addresses are exported.

The service provider has to be registered at the `EmailMarketingProviderDefinition.`

The registration of the new provider at the `EmailMarketingProviderDefinition`

is executed during server startup via a naming module.

In the following, you can see a source code example for `AcEmailMarketingStdNamingModule`

.

... bind(EmailMarketingStdConfigurationFactory.class).to(EmailMarketingStdConfigurationFactoryImpl.class).in(Singleton.class); Multibinder.newSetBinder(binder(), EmailMarketingProviderDefinition.class) .addBinding().to(EmailMarketingStdProviderDefinitionImpl.class); ...

This naming module has to be declared in your cartridge's *objectgraph.properties:*

<yourcartridge>/src/main/resources/resources/<yourcartridge>/objectgraph/objectgraph.properties

The new personal data request provider for newsletter has to be registered at the `EmailMarketingStdPersonalDataProvider.`


The registration of the new provider at the `EmailMarketingStdPersonalDataProvider`

is executed during server startup via a naming module.

A source code example for `AcEmailMarketingStdNamingModule`

is shown below:

... MapBinder<String, Function<PersonalDataRequestBO, List<PersonalInformationRO>>> personalInformationProviders; personalInformationProviders = MapBinder.newMapBinder(binder(), new TypeLiteral<String>(){}, new TypeLiteral<Function<PersonalDataRequestBO, List<PersonalInformationRO>>>(){}, named("GDPR-PersonalInformationProviders")); personalInformationProviders.addBinding("EmailMarketingStdPersonalDataProvider") .to(EmailMarketingStdPersonalDataProvider.class).in(Singleton.class); ...

The newsletter object will be exported within the set of personal data. The exported data consists of the following fields for newsletter:

CREATIONDATE

LASTMODIFIEDDATE

NEWSLETTERCONFIRMED

When a registered customer requests account deletion, all newsletter information is automatically removed from the system and can no longer be used.

When an unregistered user requests the deletion of personal data, a customer service representative has to perform the following steps:

Search for the user's e-mail address under *Marketing | Newsletter* on the *Subscriptions* tab (1).

Delete multiple entries by checking the respective checkboxes (2) and clicking *Delete* (3).

Alternatively, single entries can be deleted directly via the trash icon in the *Actions* column (4).

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.