---
id: 'c0f00f0d666b5d649a201bbe37ea5bc7'
title: 'Job'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/295E31'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:28.876153+00:00'
---
Name | AuditDataCSVExportAndCleanup |
|---|---|
Domain | root |
Job Dependencies | none |
AcquiredResources | none |
Cartridge | sld_enterprise_app |
Pipeline | ProcessAuditItemsExportJob-Start |
Affected Domain Objects | AuditItemPO |
Affected Tables | audititem |
Stored Procedure | |
Default State | Disabled |
Is Site Specific | True |
Edit State | n.a. |
Live State | n.a. |
| Server Group | JOB |
Description | Exports and cleans up audit data. The parameter "archive-and-delete-audit-entries-older-than-days" is mandatory and defines the limit in days. If audit items in the database are older they will be exported and removed from the database. The audit items are exported into a sub-folder of the impex directory of the job unit. It can be influenced by the parameter "CustomExportFolder". If defined, the sub folder is " export/auditing/<year>/<month>/", where the date of the job execution is used. |
Scheduling | Once each night to prevent building up a huge backlog of audit records. This is important as events are logged with a very fine granularity and a simple user action might result in a lot of records. |
What Happens Switched Off | The audititem table grows very large in a short time frame. |
Trouble Shooting | If the job was not run for whatever reason, it is recommended to run the job manually. |
Comments | This job should can be run in the edit and live system in case of ICM audit feature is enabled by AS properties intershop.auditing.enable=true |

Product Version | 7.3 |
|---|---|
Product To Version | |
| Status |

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.