---
id: 'c134049766e9b362134ac706e1a01997'
title: 'Viewing Gift Cards and Gift Certificates'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32L625'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:15.188570+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/32L625

# Viewing Gift Cards and Gift Certificates

To view all gift certificates that have been issued:
-
Select the sales channel from the context selection box.
This opens the navigation bar of the sales channel.

-
From the navigation bar, select Marketing | Gift Cards & Gift Certificates.
The Gift Cards & Gift Certificates manager is displayed showing a list of all gift certificates for the management context. Use the simple and advanced search to narrow the list of gift certificates shown. Among other information, the amount left and the current state are shown for each gift card/gift certificate. The following table describes the possible states:

Table 1. Gift Card/Gift Certificate States
| State |
Description |
| Pending |
The gift certificate has not been redeemed yet. |
| Partially Redeemed |
The gift certificate has already been redeemed. The gift certificate can be redeemed again to use up the amount left. |
| Redeemed |
The gift certificate has been redeemed. There is no amount left. |

-
Click the gift card/gift certificate code.
This opens the detail view for the gift card/certificate.


## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.