---
id: 'c13de4ab5cf0a632214e85b89f0bb4ad'
title: 'Viewing Replication Processes'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3Y3647'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:00.111930+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Organization Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/3Y3647

# Viewing Replication Processes

To view all replication processes that have been defined:
-
Select Data Replication | Data Replication Processes.
This displays a list of replication processes defined on the system. The list can be filtered by the following process states:

Table 1. Replication Process States
| Process State |
Description |
| Waiting |
All replication processes that have not been started yet. |
| In Progress |
All replication processes that have been started and are currently in progress |
| Completed |
All replication processes that have been completed successfully |
| Failed |
All replication processes that have failed. In case a replication process fails, it is rolled back automatically. |

-
Click a replication process in the list to view details.

## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.