---
id: 'c2be94dc97358b974f4a8b1e0a547460'
title: 'Public Release Notes'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/Q27750'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:01.060460+00:00'
---
Welcome to the Omni-Channel Services Toolset 1.1.

Intershop's Omni-Channel Services Toolset (OCST) is a collection of frameworks that enable fast, standardized development of business web apps like the Intershop Contact Center. Based on open-source technologies, the OCST is decoupled from the Intershop 7/Intershop Commerce Management core platform and uses the REST API (as part of the Synaptic Commerce API) to access data and commerce functionality.

The Contact Center is a reference implementation for the Omni-Channel Services Toolset and can be used by contact center agents to solve the customers' problems and assist them while shopping.

This document provides important product information, including version information and dependencies. It also outlines the basic setup and configuration steps.

**Open new doors with the Omni-Channel Services Toolset.**

With the new release 1.1 of the Omni-Channel Services Toolset (OCST) as part of the Intershop Commerce Suite our customers and partners receive a modern toolset to develop service applications very fast and flexible. Based on the contact center demo application, which will be delivered as blueprint with the OCST 1.1,specific business processes can be customized and extended. The OCST 1.1 is compatible to Intershop Commerce Management 7.6 B2C and B2X edition.

New!

The contact center agents can add articles by SKU to the basket in the quick order. Now they can additional search for parts of product names or SKUs. The right article can be added to the cart from the search result.

Furthermore, the B2B specific customer search is available by now. After selecting a B2B customer from the search result, the contact center agent get details like the taxation identification number.

This delivery and the accompanying documentation are valid for the following combinations of software versions:

| Intershop | Omni-Channel Services Toolset |
|---|---|
| 7.6 | 1.1 |

The package contains the component set`f_contactcenter`

which includes the following cartridges:

To build own applications based on the Omni-Channel Services Toolset, the sources of the reference implementation as well as the source for the documentation and the demo assembly are provided:

Adding the Contact Center to your Intershop 7 system assumes the following requirements:

Note

For details about using the CI infrastructure, see [Cookbook - Setup CI Infrastructure.](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1812641226/Cookbook+-+Setup+of+CI+Infrastructure+valid+to+Gradle+Tools+2.7)

The Omni-Channel Services Toolset requires an Intershop 7.6 based installation. All setup steps described below are based on the assembly used for this installation, which is referred to as* <ASSEMBLY>*. Also the required Gradle files (*build.gradle, deploy.gradle*) should be already part of this assembly

Define a host type for the Omni-Channel Services Toolset web application by adding the following host type to *build.gradle*:

assembly { ... // Define the Omni-Channel Services Toolset hosttype hostTypes { contactcenter { include ( 'com.intershop:3rd_tomcat', 'com.intershop.infrastructure:runtime', 'com.intershop.infrastructure:tcm', 'com.intershop.ocst:app_contactcenter' ) { transitive = false } includeLocal = true } } ... }

The version of the used OCST has to be added to the *gradle.properties*:

version.com.intershop.ocst.app_contactcenter = 1.1.3

To deploy the Omni-Channel Services Toolset the used host type needs to be configured. See [Cookbook - Gradle Deployment Tools - Recipe: Configure the Deployment](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1783302208#Cookbook-GradleDeploymentTools-Recipe:ConfiguretheDeployment) for more details. As an example, to deploy within the same Tomcat as the Intershop 7 system, add the following lines to the *deploy.gradle*:

apply plugin: com.intershop.deploy.assembly.TargetPlugin apply plugin: com.intershop.deploy.resources.ResourceDeploymentPlugin apply plugin: com.intershop.deploy.intershop.TomcatPlugin deployment { if (target.includeLocal) { // if hostType == ALL (development) add a map as contactcenter extension // containing the default values for the REST APIs if (deploymentBootstrap.hostType.hostType.name == 'all' && !tomcat.instances.any { it.ext.has 'contactcenter' }) { def host = "https://${webadapter.hostname}:${webadapter.securePort}" tomcat.instances.find().ext.contactcenter = [ webshopRestURIBase: "$host/INTERSHOP/rest/WFS/", contactcenterRestURI: "$host/INTERSHOP/rest/WFS/ContactCenter/-", contactcenterRestURIBase: "$host/INTERSHOP/rest/WFS/" ] } } }

Note

For details about adding custom deployment logic to an assembly, see [Recipe: Add Custom Deployment Logic to an Assembly](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1788155636/Cookbook+-+Gradle+Assembly+Tools+valid+to+7.8#Cookbook-GradleAssemblyTools(validto7.8)-GradleAssemblyTools-AddDeploymentLogicRecipe:AddCustomDeploymentLogictoanAssembly).

If the Contact Center is deployed within the development environment, no additional settings are necessary. The file* f_contactcenter/app_contactcenter/deployment/deploy.gradle* ensures that the placeholders in the URIs are replaced during deployment.

If you only want to install an assembly with the Contact Center using* settings.gradle*, the URIs must be configured manually. To do this, change the file* settings.gradle* to configure the Contact Center:

tomcat { instances { appserver0 { ext.contactcenter = [ webshopRestURIBase: 'https://[HOSTNAME]:[SECURE_PORT]/INTERSHOP/rest/WFS/', contactcenterRestURIBase: 'https://[HOSTNAME]:[SECURE_PORT]/INTERSHOP/rest/WFS/', contactcenterRestURI: 'https://[HOSTNAME]:[SECURE_PORT]/INTERSHOP/rest/WFS/ContactCenter/-' ] } } }

Note

**Server Name**

To ensure the web application can work with the REST API, it is very important to set the host name to the public host name of your server. This is necessary because the REST API will generate links for the client application to request created resources.

This can be done in the *settings.gradle*:

deploymentBootstrap { appserver { hostname = 'your.public.hostname' } }

On delivery the Contact Center supports only the following payment methods:

Note

The list of available payment methods can be configured. See [Configure the Available Payment Methods](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1812631537/Cookbook+-+OCST+Omni-Channel+Services+Toolset). To support payment methods which need the input of additional values (e.g., credit card), the demo application must be extended to support this.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.