---
id: 'c352d5297c38bdcb37e7f4b2edec87e7'
title: 'Overview'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/278K95'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:39:03.586937+00:00'
---
The present page serves as an overview for the topic. All available documents for the topic can be found here.

Localization is the process of adapting internationalized software for a specific region or language by adding locale-specific components and translating text. Localization (which is potentially performed multiple times, for different locales) uses the infrastructure or flexibility provided by [internationalization](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ISGLOS/pages/2214729522/internationalization).

Generally, internationalization and localization (sometimes combined as "globalization") are means of adapting computer software to different languages, regional differences and technical requirements of a target market.

Internationalization is the process of designing a software application so that it can potentially be adapted to various languages and regions without engineering changes. It is an integral part of ongoing development.

Internationalization must consider different languages and writing systems, different numeral systems, punctuation etc., as well as different economic conventions, including variations in number formats, address formats, currencies, systems of measurement, etc.

Generally, internationalization and [localization](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ISGLOS/pages/2214729524/localization) (sometimes combined as "globalization") are means of adapting computer software to different languages, regional differences and technical requirements of a target market.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.