---
id: 'c384e9370e92cd5098447b62265187a2'
title: 'Reference - IOM REST API'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2940S4'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:37:01.233208+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/2940S4

This API specification is available for download as an Open API 3.0 YAML file:

# Authentication

## Basic Authentication

For the **server health check** there is currently no authorization required.

To retrieve the **clusterstatus**, please configure your clients to use this authentication method to submit the user name and password.

# Authorization

To retrieve the **clusterstatus **for a UI-client, use *basic authorization* and just type in the login and password.

# References

# API Specification

openapi: 3.0.1 info: title: IOM Health Service REST API description: The API offers server health check service operations. contact: name: Intershop Communications AG url: http://intershop.com version: "1.0" servers: - url: '{protocol}://{domain}:{port}/monitoring/services' variables: protocol: default: http enum: - http - https domain: default: localhost port: default: "8080" paths: /health/clusterstatus: get: tags: - IOM - Application Monitoring summary: Returns the status of all app-servers of a cluster. description: Returns the status of all app-servers of a cluster. operationId: getClusterStatus responses: "200": description: The request succeeded. content: application/json: schema: type: array items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/HealthCheckStatus' "401": description: Unauthorized "403": description: Forbidden "500": description: Internal server error. security: - AuthDefinition.BASIC_KEY: [] /health/status: get: tags: - IOM - Application Monitoring summary: Checks if the app-server is alive. description: Checks if the app-server is alive. operationId: getServerStatus responses: "200": description: The request succeeded. content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/HealthCheckStatus' "500": description: Internal server error "503": description: Service unavailable, possibly starting. components: schemas: HealthCheckServiceStatus: type: object properties: name: type: string description: Name of the checked service. example: database checked: type: boolean description: Whether the service was checked or not. example: true statusCode: type: integer description: The status code of the checked service. format: int32 example: 200 description: type: string description: The description of the current status. example: OK description: Represents the current health status of one service of an app-server. example: '...' HealthCheckStatus: type: object properties: services: type: array description: A list of all services and their status that were checked. example: '...' items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/HealthCheckServiceStatus' serverId: type: string description: Name of the app-server. example: '...' serverType: type: string description: Type of the app-server. example: backend statusCode: type: integer description: The status of the health check. format: int32 example: 200 description: type: string description: The description of the current status. example: OK lastCheckEpoch: type: integer description: The timestamp as epoch the check was processed. format: int64 lastSuccessfulCheckEpoch: type: integer description: The timestamp as epoch the last successful check was processed. format: int64 lastCheck: type: string description: The timestamp the check was processed. format: date-time lastSuccessfulCheck: type: string description: The timestamp the last successful check was processed. format: date-time description: Represents the current health status of an app-server. securitySchemes: basicAuth: type: http description: Basic Authentication scheme: basic

[Open ReDoc-rendered Open API documentation in separate window.](https://knowledge.intershop.com/rdd/Redoc-2940S4.html)

## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.