---
id: 'c39be012cb253c5ce470d73285bbbf6b'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/25996T'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:14.513714+00:00'
---
The API Documentation (APIDoc) is an HTML-based report of all Intershop 7 artifacts of a given version. It closes the gap between the existing Javadoc and the undocumented Intershop artifacts.

Main objective was to provide the same experience as using a regular Javadoc.

As the report closely resembles a Javadoc it can be navigated the same way. However, there are some differences to consider when using the APIDoc:

The APIDoc does not *create* details pages for Java types, instead it *embeds* their corresponding Javadoc pages. The following Javadoc sources are considered:

It might be possible to consider third party libraries. If no Javadoc exists a "page not found" message will be displayed in the right pane.

In order to create APIDoc for Intershop 7 artifacts you have to use Intershop Studio 4.5 or later.

To create an APIDoc in Intershop Studio:

| option #1 |
| |
| option #2 |
| |
| ||
| ||
| ||
| ||
either:
|

use ID: api.export.doc

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.