---
id: 'c65b747cba7f534d2a93312f1661c65d'
title: 'Public Release Note'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/H29975'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:39:48.323054+00:00'
---
Welcome to the IOM dbaccount Docker image.

This image is used to create and configure the PostgreSQL user and database, suitable for use with IOM.

The IOM dbaccount image provides backward compatibility to many IOM versions. For best experience, please always use the newest version of the IOM dbaccount image, according to the compatibility matrixes.

| dbaccount \ IOM | 3.0 | 3.1 | 3.2 | 3.3 | 3.4 | 3.5 | 3.6 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 1.3 | |||||||
| 1.2 | x | ||||||
| 1.1 | x | x | x | x | x | x |

x) not supported

Note

**Attention**

The combination of both tables with dependency information cannot be used to derive any dependency information between *Intershop Order Management* and *PostgreSQL*. This information must be received from the *System Requirements* of IOM.

| dbaccount \ dbaccount | 9.5 | 9.6 | 10 | 11 | 12 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 1.3 | x | x | |||
| 1.2 | |||||
| 1.1 | x |

| Term | Description |
|---|---|
| Docker | An operating system-level virtualization software. |
| Helm | A package manager for Kubernetes. |
| IOM | The abbreviation for Intershop Order Management |
| Kubernetes | An open-source system for automating deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications. |

The IOM dbaccount Docker Image 1.3 comes with the following new features:

The IOM dbaccount image is now based on Alpine 3.14.2.

The Helm parameter *oms.db.connectTimeout* allows to define the connect timeout of database connections. The value is defined in seconds.

A value of 0 means to wait infinitely.

Note

To be able to use this feature, IOM Helm charts 1.5.0 or newer are required.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.