---
id: 'c70b215993129180adb11edc90cebbde'
title: 'Public Release Notes'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/A27744'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:01.301288+00:00'
---
Welcome to the Intershop Contact Center 1.0.

The Contact Center (CC) is intended to be used by contact center agents to solve the customer's problems and assist him while shopping.

This Release Note provides important product information, including version information and dependencies. It also outlines the basic setup and configuration steps.

Note

The initial version of the Contact Center was delivered alongside with a *Readme for Intershop Contact Center 1.0*.

You may download this document from the Knowledge Base: [Readme for Intershop Contact Center 1.0](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2L6111)

This delivery and the accompanying documentation are valid for the following combinations of software versions:

| Intershop | Contact Center |
|---|---|
| 7.5.1 | 1.0.2 |

The package contains the component set *f_contactcenter* which includes the following cartridges:

The Contact Center 1.0.2 is a hotfix release for the Contact Center 1.0.

For more detailed information on already existing features please refer to the according feature lists.

As requested from many customers, the B2B specific customer search is available by now (Contact Center 1.0.2). After selecting a B2B customer from the search result, the contact center agent gets details like the taxation identification number.

To build own applications based on the Omni-Channel Services Toolset, the sources of the reference implementation as well as the source for the documentation and the demo assembly are provided:

http://<your-reposerver:port>/nexus/content/repositories/ishrepo/com.intershop.services.source/f_contactcenter-customer/1.0.x/zips/f_contactcenter-customer-zip-src-1.0.x.zip

Adding the Contact Center to your Intershop 7 system assumes the following requirements:

Note

For details about using the CI infrastructure, see [Cookbook - Setup CI Infrastructure.](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1812641226/Cookbook+-+Setup+of+CI+Infrastructure+valid+to+Gradle+Tools+2.7)

The Contact Center 1.0 needs some extensions in the Intershop 7 to provide the full functionality.

Add the following line to *<ASSEMBLY>/gradle.properties*

filter.com.intershop.services.set.f_contactcenter = 1.0.2

*Change the file <ASSEMBLY>/build.gradle by adding the cartridges of the Contact Center*

assembly { ... // Add the Contact Center cartridges cartridges { def productionCartridges = [ 'as_contactcenter', 'app_sf_contactcenter_rest', 'app_sf_contactcenter_cobrowsing', 'app_bo_contactcenter_cobrowsing' ] include (*(productionCartridges.collect {"com.intershop.services:$it"}), in:[development, test, production]) { transitive = false } def testCartridges = [ 'app_sf_contactcenter_test', 'app_sf_contactcenter_rest_test' ] include (*(testCartridges.collect {"com.intershop.services:$it"}), in:[development, test]) { transitive = false } def initCartridges = [ 'init_contactcenter', 'ucm_demo_contactcenter' ] include (*(initCartridges.collect {"com.intershop.services:$it"}), in:[init]) { transitive = false } order = listFromAssembly('com.intershop.assembly:primetech') + productionCartridges + initCartridges + testCartridges } ... }

Note

Among others, the statements include the Contact Center REST API. Please note, that `listFromAssembly('com.intershop.assembly:primetech')`

is only an example and has to be modified as required

Run *dbinit* to initialize the Contact Center

All setup steps described below are based on the assembly used for this installation, which is referred to as *<ASSEMBLY>*. Also the required Gradle files (*build.gradle, deploy.gradle*) should be already part of this assembly

The host type of the Contact Center web application is defined by adding the following host type to *build.gradle:*

assembly { ... // Define the Contact Center hosttype hostTypes { contactcenter { include ( 'com.intershop:3rd_tomcat', 'com.intershop:runtime', 'com.intershop:tcm', 'com.intershop.services:app_contactcenter', ) { transitive = false } includeLocal = true } } ... }

To deploy the Contact Center the used host type needs to be configured. See [Cookbook - Gradle Deployment Tools - Recipe: Configure the Deployment](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1783302208/Cookbook+-+Gradle+Deployment+Tools+7.4+CI+-+ICM+7.7#Cookbook-GradleDeploymentTools(7.4CI-ICM7.7)-Recipe-Configure-the-Deployment) for more details. As an example, to deploy within the same Tomcat as the Intershop 7 system, add the following lines to the *deploy.gradle*:

apply plugin: com.intershop.deploy.assembly.TargetPlugin apply plugin: com.intershop.deploy.resources.ResourceDeploymentPlugin apply plugin: com.intershop.deploy.intershop.TomcatPlugin deployment { if (target.includeLocal) { // if hostType == ALL (development) add a map as contactcenter extension // containing the default values for the REST APIs if (deploymentBootstrap.hostType.hostType.name == 'all' && !tomcat.instances.any { it.ext.has 'contactcenter' }) { def host = "https://${webadapter.hostname}:${webadapter.securePort}" tomcat.instances.find().ext.contactcenter = [ webshopRestURIBase: "$host/INTERSHOP/rest/WFS/", contactcenterRestURI: "$host/INTERSHOP/rest/WFS/ContactCenter/-", contactcenterRestURIBase: "$host/INTERSHOP/rest/WFS/" ] } } }

Note

For details about adding custom deployment logic to an assembly, see [Recipe: Add Custom Deployment Logic to an Assembly](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1788155636/Cookbook+-+Gradle+Assembly+Tools+valid+to+7.8#Cookbook-GradleAssemblyTools(validto7.8)-AddDeploymentLogic).

If the Contact Center is deployed within the development environment, no additional settings are necessary. The file* f_contactcenter/app_contactcenter/deployment/deploy.gradle* ensures that the placeholders in the URIs are replaced during deployment.

If you only want to install an assembly with the Contact Center using *settings.gradle*, the URIs must be configured manually. To do this, change the file* settings.gradle* to configure the Contact Center:

tomcat { instances { appserver0 { ext.contactcenter = [ webshopRestURIBase: 'https://[HOSTNAME]:[SECURE_PORT]/INTERSHOP/rest/WFS/', contactcenterRestURIBase: 'https://[HOSTNAME]:[SECURE_PORT]/INTERSHOP/rest/WFS/', contactcenterRestURI: 'https://[HOSTNAME]:[SECURE_PORT]/INTERSHOP/rest/WFS/ContactCenter/-' ] } } }

Note

**Server name**

To ensure the Web application can work with the REST API, it is very important to set the host name to the public host name of your server. This is necessary because the REST API will generate links for the client application to request created resources.

This can be done in the *settings.gradle*:

deploymentBootstrap { appserver { hostname = 'your.public.hostname' } }

On delivery the Contact Center supports only the following payment methods:

Note

The list of available payment methods can be configured. See [Configure the Available Payment Methods](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1812631537/Cookbook+-+OCST+Omni-Channel+Services+Toolset#Cookbook-OCST(Omni-ChannelServicesToolset)-ConfigureAvailablePaymentMethods). To support payment methods which need the input of additional values (e.g., credit card), the demo application must be extended to support this.

On the quick order page, a product can only be searched by the product's SKU.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.