---
id: 'c91d12c24218afdadc125845577b02de'
title: 'Reference'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/30X661'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:10.909271+00:00'
---
This API specification is available for download as an Open API 3.0 YAML file:

# References

The following page lists available REST APIs for ICM 7.10 and their version dependencies:

# API Specification

openapi: 3.0.1 info: title: Cost Center description: |- The Intershop Cost Center REST API contains resources for managing cost centers. This includes creating, reading, updating and deleting cost centers. It also allows managing buyers and their associated budget information. Support for paginated cost center lists is available in version 2.0 through the `limit` and `offset` query parameters. ## Changelog - - - ### Version 1.1.0 * A new property `active` indicates whether a cost center user is active or not. contact: name: Intershop Communications AG url: http://intershop.com version: 1.1.0 servers: - url: "/INTERSHOP/rest/{serverGroup}/{siteName}/{appUrl}" description: Intershop ICM Server variables: serverGroup: description: The server group enum: - BOS - JOB - WFS default: WFS siteName: description: The site name default: inSPIRED-inTRONICS-Site appUrl: description: The application URL identifier enum: - rest default: rest paths: /customers/{CustomerKey}/costcenters: get: tags: - Cost Center summary: Returns all cost centers description: This operation returns a list of links to all cost centers of the customer as well as some of their properties. operationId: getCostCenters parameters: - name: CustomerKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.smb.capi.resource.customer.CustomerListResource responses: "200": description: OK - The list of cost centers. content: application/json: schema: type: array description: OK - The list of cost centers. items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LinkRO" "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. "404": description: Not found - The customer could not be found. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterListResource.getCostCenters() x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterListResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[(hasPermission[Organization:APP_B2B_MANAGE_COSTCENTER]\ \ AND isMemberOfCustomer), isMemberOfCustomer]" post: tags: - Cost Center summary: Creates a new cost center description: This operation creates a new cost center. operationId: createCostCenter parameters: - name: CustomerKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.smb.capi.resource.customer.CustomerListResource requestBody: description: The information about the new cost center. For the costcenter owner only the login is required. content: application/json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/NewCostCenterRO" responses: "201": description: Created - The new cost center. content: '*/*': schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LinkRO" "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. "404": description: Not found - The customer could not be found. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterListResource.createCostCenter(com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resourceobject.NewCostCenterRO) x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterListResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[(hasPermission[Organization:APP_B2B_MANAGE_COSTCENTER]\ \ AND isMemberOfCustomer), isMemberOfCustomer]" /customers/{CustomerKey}/costcenters/{CostCenterKey}: get: tags: - Cost Center summary: Returns cost center details description: This operation returns detail information about the cost center with the given ID. operationId: getCostCenter parameters: - name: CustomerKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.smb.capi.resource.customer.CustomerListResource - name: CostCenterKey in: path description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the UUID\ \ of the cost center is also supported)" required: true schema: type: string description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the\ \ UUID of the cost center is also supported)" example: "123456" example: "123456" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterListResource responses: "200": description: OK - The cost center with the given ID. content: application/json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CostCenterRO" "401": description: Unathorized - The user could not be authenticated. "404": description: Not found - The customer or the cost center could not be found. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterItemResource.getCostCenter() x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterItemResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[(hasPermission[Organization:APP_B2B_MANAGE_COSTCENTER]\ \ AND isMemberOfCustomer), isMemberOfCustomer]" delete: tags: - Cost Center summary: Removes the cost center description: This operation removes the cost center with the given ID. operationId: deleteCostCenter parameters: - name: CustomerKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.smb.capi.resource.customer.CustomerListResource - name: CostCenterKey in: path description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the UUID\ \ of the cost center is also supported)" required: true schema: type: string description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the\ \ UUID of the cost center is also supported)" example: "123456" example: "123456" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterListResource responses: "204": description: No content - The cost center was deleted. "401": description: Unathorized - The user could not be authenticated. "404": description: Not found - The customer or the cost center could not be found. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterItemResource.deleteCostCenter() x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterItemResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[(hasPermission[Organization:APP_B2B_MANAGE_COSTCENTER]\ \ AND isMemberOfCustomer), isMemberOfCustomer]" patch: tags: - Cost Center summary: Updates the cost center description: This operation updates the cost center information. operationId: updateCostCenter parameters: - name: CustomerKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.smb.capi.resource.customer.CustomerListResource - name: CostCenterKey in: path description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the UUID\ \ of the cost center is also supported)" required: true schema: type: string description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the\ \ UUID of the cost center is also supported)" example: "123456" example: "123456" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterListResource requestBody: description: The new information about the cost center. For the cost center owner only the login is required. content: application/json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/UpdateCostCenterRO" responses: "200": description: OK - The updated cost center. content: application/json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CostCenterRO" "401": description: Unathorized - The user could not be authenticated. "404": description: Not found - The customer or the cost center could not be found. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterItemResource.updateCostCenter(com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resourceobject.UpdateCostCenterRO) x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterItemResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[(hasPermission[Organization:APP_B2B_MANAGE_COSTCENTER]\ \ AND isMemberOfCustomer), isMemberOfCustomer]" /customers/{CustomerKey}/costcenters/{CostCenterKey}/buyers: get: tags: - Cost Center summary: Returns all buyers for the cost center description: "This operation returns a list of links to all assigned buyers\ \ for the given cost center, as well as some of their properties." operationId: getCostCenterBuyers parameters: - name: CustomerKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.smb.capi.resource.customer.CustomerListResource - name: CostCenterKey in: path description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the UUID\ \ of the cost center is also supported)" required: true schema: type: string description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the\ \ UUID of the cost center is also supported)" example: "123456" example: "123456" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterListResource responses: "200": description: OK - The cost center buyers. content: application/json: schema: type: array description: OK - The cost center buyers. items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LinkRO" "401": description: Unathorized - The user could not be authenticated. "404": description: Not found - The customer or cost center could not be found. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterBuyerListResource.getCostCenterBuyers() x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterBuyerListResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[(hasPermission[Organization:APP_B2B_MANAGE_COSTCENTER]\ \ AND isMemberOfCustomer), isMemberOfCustomer]" post: tags: - Cost Center summary: Adds a new cost center buyer description: This operation adds a new buyer to the given cost center. operationId: addCostCenterBuyer parameters: - name: CustomerKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.smb.capi.resource.customer.CustomerListResource - name: CostCenterKey in: path description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the UUID\ \ of the cost center is also supported)" required: true schema: type: string description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the\ \ UUID of the cost center is also supported)" example: "123456" example: "123456" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterListResource requestBody: description: The information about the new cost center buyer. content: application/json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/NewCostCenterBuyerRO" responses: "200": description: OK - The added buyer. content: application/json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CostCenterUserRO" "401": description: Unathorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. "404": description: Not found - The customer or cost center could not be found. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterBuyerListResource.addCostCenterBuyer(com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resourceobject.NewCostCenterBuyerRO) x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterBuyerListResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[(hasPermission[Organization:APP_B2B_MANAGE_COSTCENTER]\ \ AND isMemberOfCustomer), isMemberOfCustomer]" /customers/{CustomerKey}/costcenters/{CostCenterKey}/buyers/{CostCenterBuyerKey}: get: tags: - Cost Center summary: Returns information about a buyer of the cost center description: This operation returns information about a buyer of the cost center. operationId: getCostCenterBuyer parameters: - name: CustomerKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.smb.capi.resource.customer.CustomerListResource - name: CostCenterKey in: path description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the UUID\ \ of the cost center is also supported)" required: true schema: type: string description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the\ \ UUID of the cost center is also supported)" example: "123456" example: "123456" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterListResource - name: CostCenterBuyerKey in: path description: The login of the cost center buyer required: true schema: type: string description: The login of the cost center buyer example: pmiller@test.intershop.de example: pmiller@test.intershop.de x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterBuyerListResource responses: "200": description: OK - The buyer information. content: application/json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CostCenterUserRO" "401": description: Unathorized - The user could not be authenticated. "404": description: "Not found - The customer, cost center or buyer could not be\ \ found." "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterBuyerItemResource.getCostCenterBuyer() x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterBuyerItemResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[(hasPermission[Organization:APP_B2B_MANAGE_COSTCENTER]\ \ AND isMemberOfCustomer), isMemberOfCustomer]" delete: tags: - Cost Center summary: Removes the buyer from the cost center description: This operation removes the given buyer from the cost center. operationId: removeCostCenterBuyer parameters: - name: CustomerKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.smb.capi.resource.customer.CustomerListResource - name: CostCenterKey in: path description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the UUID\ \ of the cost center is also supported)" required: true schema: type: string description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the\ \ UUID of the cost center is also supported)" example: "123456" example: "123456" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterListResource - name: CostCenterBuyerKey in: path description: The login of the cost center buyer required: true schema: type: string description: The login of the cost center buyer example: pmiller@test.intershop.de example: pmiller@test.intershop.de x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterBuyerListResource responses: "204": description: No content - The cost center buyer was removed. "401": description: Unathorized - The user could not be authenticated. "404": description: "Not found - The customer, cost center or buyer could not be\ \ found." "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterBuyerItemResource.removeCostCenterBuyer() x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterBuyerItemResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[(hasPermission[Organization:APP_B2B_MANAGE_COSTCENTER]\ \ AND isMemberOfCustomer), isMemberOfCustomer]" patch: tags: - Cost Center summary: Updates the budget for a buyer of the cost center description: This operation updates the budget for a buyer of the cost center. operationId: updateCostCenterBuyer parameters: - name: CustomerKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.smb.capi.resource.customer.CustomerListResource - name: CostCenterKey in: path description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the UUID\ \ of the cost center is also supported)" required: true schema: type: string description: "The ID of the cost center. (For compatibility reasons, the\ \ UUID of the cost center is also supported)" example: "123456" example: "123456" x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterListResource - name: CostCenterBuyerKey in: path description: The login of the cost center buyer required: true schema: type: string description: The login of the cost center buyer example: pmiller@test.intershop.de example: pmiller@test.intershop.de x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterBuyerListResource requestBody: description: The updated budget for the cost center buyer. content: application/json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/UpdateCostCenterBuyerRO" responses: "200": description: OK - The cost center buyer with the updated budget. content: application/json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CostCenterUserRO" "401": description: Unathorized - The user could not be authenticated. "404": description: "Not found - The customer, cost center or buyer could not be\ \ found." "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterBuyerItemResource.updateCostCenterBuyer(com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resourceobject.UpdateCostCenterBuyerRO) x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.b2b.costcenter.capi.resource.CostCenterBuyerItemResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[(hasPermission[Organization:APP_B2B_MANAGE_COSTCENTER]\ \ AND isMemberOfCustomer), isMemberOfCustomer]" /customers/{CustomerKey}/users/{CustomerItemUserKey}/costcenters: get: tags: - Cost Center summary: Returns a list of cost centers of a business user description: This operation returns a list of all cost centers to which the user is assigned (as a buyer or approver). operationId: getCostCenters_1 parameters: - name: CustomerKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.smb.capi.resource.customer.CustomerListResource - name: CustomerItemUserKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.smb.capi.resource.user.CustomerItemUserListResource responses: "200": description: OK - The list of cost centers. content: application/json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/UserCostCenterLinkROCollection" text/xml: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/UserCostCenterLinkROCollection" "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. "404": description: Not found - The customer or user could not be found or does not support cost centers. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-origin-method: public com.intershop.application.storefront.rest.b2b.capi.user.costcenter.resourceobject.UserCostCenterLinkROCollection com.intershop.application.storefront.rest.b2b.capi.user.costcenter.resource.UserCostCenterListResource.getCostCenters() x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.storefront.rest.b2b.capi.user.costcenter.resource.UserCostCenterListResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[hasSameIdentity, isMemberOfCustomer]" /customers/{CustomerKey}/users/{CustomerItemUserKey}/costcenters/{UserCostCenterKey}: get: tags: - Cost Center summary: Returns business user cost center details description: This operation returns the details of a specified cost center of a business user. operationId: getUserCostCenter parameters: - name: CustomerKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.smb.capi.resource.customer.CustomerListResource - name: CustomerItemUserKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.smb.capi.resource.user.CustomerItemUserListResource - name: UserCostCenterKey in: path description: The cost center ID assigned by the customer required: true schema: type: string description: The cost center ID assigned by the customer example: "100401" example: "100401" x-item-key: com.intershop.application.storefront.rest.b2b.capi.user.costcenter.resource.UserCostCenterListResource responses: "200": description: OK - The cost center details. content: application/json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/UserCostCenterRO" text/xml: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/UserCostCenterRO" "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. "404": description: "Not found - The customer or user could not be found, does\ \ not support cost centers or is not assigned to a cost center (as buyer\ \ or approver)." security: - bearerAuth: [] x-origin-method: public com.intershop.application.storefront.rest.b2b.capi.user.costcenter.resourceobject.UserCostCenterRO com.intershop.application.storefront.rest.b2b.capi.user.costcenter.resource.UserCostCenterItemResource.getUserCostCenter() x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.storefront.rest.b2b.capi.user.costcenter.resource.UserCostCenterItemResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[hasSameIdentity, isMemberOfCustomer]" components: schemas: LinkRO: title: Link type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of the returned element xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: "This is a constant: **Link**" readOnly: true example: Link xml: attribute: true attributes: type: array description: The list of attributes xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute" uri: type: string description: The URI relation: type: string description: The relation of the link externalDocs: description: Link Relations (www.iana.org) url: http://www.iana.org/assignments/link-relations/link-relations.xml enum: - about - alternate - appendix - archives - author - bookmark - canonical - chapter - collection - contents - copyright - create-form - current - describedby - describes - disclosure - duplicate - edit - edit-form - edit-media - enclosure - first - glossary - help - hosts - hub - icon - index - item - last - latest-version - license - lrdd - monitor - monitor-group - next - next-archive - nofollow - noreferrer - payment - predecessor-version - prefetch - prev - preview - previous - prev-archive - privacy-policy - profile - related - replies - search - section - self - service - start - stylesheet - subsection - successor-version - tag - terms-of-service - type - up - version-history - via - working-copy - working-copy-of title: type: string description: The title of the link description: type: string description: The description of the link itemId: type: string description: The ID of the linked item attribute: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ResourceAttribute" description: A Link pointing to a resource xml: name: Link ResourceAttribute: title: Attribute type: object properties: name: type: string description: The attribute's name xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: "This is a constant: **ResourceAttribute**" example: ResourceAttribute xml: attribute: true value: type: object description: The attribute's value. description: An attribute xml: name: ResourceAttribute CostCenterUserRO: title: CostCenterUser type: object properties: active: type: boolean description: Indicates whether the user is active or not example: true approvedOrders: type: integer description: The approved orders of the cost center buyer format: int32 example: 8 budget: $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1" budgetPeriod: type: string description: The budget period of the cost center buyer example: monthly buyerDetails: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LinkRO" email: type: string description: The e-mail address of the person represented by this user example: merkel@test.intershop.de firstName: type: string description: "The given name (also known as a personal name, first name,\ \ forename) of the person represented by this user" example: Peter lastName: type: string description: "The surname (also known as a family name, last name) of the\ \ person represented by this user" example: Merkel login: type: string description: The login of the person represented by this user example: merkel@test.intershop.de pendingOrders: type: integer description: The pending orders of the cost center buyer format: int32 example: 2 remainingBudget: $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1" spentBudget: $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1" title: type: string description: "The personal title, like Ms., Mr." example: Mr. description: This resource holds information about a cost center user. MoneyRO_v1: title: MoneyRO_v1 type: object properties: currency: type: string description: Three-letter currency code (ISO 4217) of the monetary value example: USD value: type: number description: The monetary value example: 10.99 description: Describes a money object NewCostCenterRO: title: NewCostCenter type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of the cost center example: my cost center xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the element. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate elements by their type. ' example: NewCostCenter xml: attribute: true active: type: boolean budget: $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1" budgetPeriod: type: string description: The budget period of the cost center example: monthly costCenterId: type: string description: The unique cost center ID assigned by the customer example: "007" costCenterOwner: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CostCenterUserRO" id: type: string description: The unique cost center ID assigned by the system example: q2QKAEsBiyQAAAFjXFBB6G14 description: This resource holds information on a new cost center. CostCenterRO: title: CostCenter type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of the cost center example: my cost center xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the element. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate elements by their type. ' example: CostCenter xml: attribute: true approvedOrders: type: integer description: The approved orders of the cost center format: int32 example: 2 active: type: boolean description: Indicates whether the cost center is active example: true budget: $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1" budgetPeriod: type: string description: The budget period of the cost center example: monthly buyers: type: array description: The cost center buyers items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CostCenterUserRO" costCenterId: type: string description: The unique cost center ID assigned by the customer example: "007" costCenterOwner: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CostCenterUserRO" id: type: string description: The unique cost center ID assigned by the system example: q2QKAEsBiyQAAAFjXFBB6G14 orders: type: array description: The orders of the cost center items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderRO" pendingOrders: type: integer description: The amount of pending orders of the cost center format: int32 example: 2 remainingBudget: $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1" spentBudget: $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1" description: This resource holds information on a given cost center. OrderRO: title: Order type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the element. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate elements by their type. ' example: Order xml: attribute: true buyer: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LinkRO" items: type: number description: The order count example: 23 order: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LinkRO" orderDate: type: array description: The order date example: - "2020" - "5" - "27" items: type: integer format: int32 orderNo: type: string description: The order no example: "001" orderStatus: type: string description: The order status example: new orderTotalGross: $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1" orderTotalNet: $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1" description: This resource holds information on an order of a cost center. UpdateCostCenterRO: title: UpdateCostCenter type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of the cost center example: my cost center xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the element. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate elements by their type. ' example: UpdateCostCenter xml: attribute: true active: type: boolean description: Indicates whether the cost center is active example: true budget: $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1" budgetPeriod: type: string description: The budget period of the cost center example: monthly costCenterId: type: string description: The cost center ID of the cost center example: "007" costCenterOwner: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CostCenterUserRO" id: type: string description: The ID of the cost center example: q2QKAEsBiyQAAAFjXFBB6G14 description: This rersource holds updated information on a cost center. NewCostCenterBuyerRO: title: NewCostCenterBuyer type: object properties: budget: $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1" budgetPeriod: type: string description: The budget period of the cost center buyer example: monthly login: type: string description: The login of the buyer example: abc@login.de description: This resource holds information on a new cost center buyer. UpdateCostCenterBuyerRO: title: UpdateCostCenterBuyer type: object properties: budget: $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1" budgetPeriod: type: string description: The budget period of the cost center buyer example: monthly description: This resource holds updated information on a cost center buyer. UserCostCenterLinkRO: title: UserCostCenterLink type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of the cost center example: Agro Net Central xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the element. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate elements by their type. ' example: UserCostCenterLink xml: attribute: true id: type: string description: The ID of the cost center example: "511288" roles: type: array description: The roles assigned to the user example: - Approver - Buyer items: type: string link: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LinkRO" description: This resource holds a list of all cost centers assigned to the user. xml: name: UserCostCenterLink UserCostCenterLinkROCollection: title: Collection type: object properties: pageable: type: string description: The pageable ID total: type: integer description: The pageable amount total format: int32 offset: type: integer description: The pageable offset format: int32 amount: type: integer description: The pageable amount format: int32 elements: type: array description: The list of elements xml: wrapped: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/UserCostCenterLinkRO" type: type: string description: 'The type of the element. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate elements by their type. ' example: ResourceCollection xml: attribute: true sortKeys: uniqueItems: true type: array description: The keys to sort for xml: wrapped: true items: type: string description: The keys to sort for xml: name: sortKey name: type: string description: The name of an element xml: attribute: true description: A list of elements xml: name: UserCostCenterLinkROCollection UserCostCenterRO: title: UserCostCenter type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of the cost center example: Agro Net Central xml: attribute: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the element. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate elements by their type. ' example: UserCostCenter xml: attribute: true id: type: string description: The ID of the cost center example: "511288" roles: type: array description: The roles assigned to the user example: - Approver - Buyer items: type: string description: This resource holds information about the assigned cost center. xml: name: UserCostCenter responses: "200": description: OK "201": description: Created "202": description: Accepted "204": description: No Content "205": description: Reset Content "206": description: Partial Content "300": description: Multiple Choices "301": description: Moved Permanently "302": description: Found "303": description: See Other "304": description: Not Modified "305": description: Use Proxy "307": description: Temporary Redirect "308": description: Permanent Redirect "400": description: Bad Request "401": description: Unauthorized "402": description: Payment Required "403": description: Forbidden "404": description: Not Found "405": description: Method Not Allowed "406": description: Not Acceptable "407": description: Proxy Authentication Required "408": description: Request Timeout "409": description: Conflict "410": description: Gone "411": description: Length Required "412": description: Precondition Failed "413": description: Request Entity Too Large "414": description: Request-URI Too Long "415": description: Unsupported Media Type "416": description: Requested Range Not Satisfiable "417": description: Expectation Failed "428": description: Precondition Required "429": description: Too Many Requests "431": description: Request Header Fields Too Large "451": description: Unavailable For Legal Reasons "500": description: Internal Server Error "501": description: Not Implemented "502": description: Bad Gateway "503": description: Service Unavailable "504": description: Gateway Timeout "505": description: HTTP Version Not Supported "511": description: Network Authentication Required parameters: loc: name: loc in: path description: "The locale ID (submitted as optional matrix parameter ```;loc=```).\ \ If omitted, the priority is as follows (from high to low): Locale ID parameter,\ \ user's default locale, site's default locale. The available locales depend\ \ on your individual Intershop Commerce Management installation. Use IANA\ \ language definitions for languages and regions and combine them using an\ \ underscore, e.g., ```en_US```." required: false style: matrix schema: type: string description: "The locale ID (submitted as optional matrix parameter ```;loc=```).\ \ If omitted, the priority is as follows (from high to low): Locale ID parameter,\ \ user's default locale, site's default locale. The available locales depend\ \ on your individual Intershop Commerce Management installation. Use IANA\ \ language definitions for languages and regions and combine them using\ \ an underscore, e.g., ```en_US```." default: en_US examples: en_US: description: English (United States) value: en_US fr_FR: description: French (France) value: fr_FR de_DE: description: German (Germany) value: de_DE x-matrixParamPath: / cur: name: cur in: path description: "The currency code (submitted as optional matrix parameter ```;cur=```).\ \ If omitted, the site's or user's default currency is used." required: false style: matrix schema: type: string description: "The currency code (submitted as optional matrix parameter ```;cur=```).\ \ If omitted, the site's or user's default currency is used." default: USD examples: FJD: description: Fiji Dollar value: FJD MXN: description: Mexican Peso value: MXN STD: description: São Tomé / Príncipe Dobra value: STD LVL: description: Latvian Lats value: LVL SCR: description: Seychelles Rupee value: SCR CDF: description: Congolese Franc value: CDF BBD: description: Barbados Dollar value: BBD GTQ: description: Guatemalan Quetzal value: GTQ CLP: description: Chilean Peso value: CLP HNL: description: Honduran Lempira value: HNL UGX: description: Ugandan Shilling value: UGX ZAR: description: South African Rand value: ZAR TND: description: Tunisian Dinar value: TND BSD: description: Bahamian Dollar value: BSD SLL: description: Sierra Leonean Leone value: SLL SDG: description: Sudanese Pound value: SDG IQD: description: Iraqi Dinar value: IQD CUP: description: Cuban Peso value: CUP GMD: description: Gambian Dalasi value: GMD TWD: description: New Taiwan Dollar value: TWD RSD: description: Serbian Dinar value: RSD ZRZ: description: Zaire value: ZRZ DOP: description: Dominican Peso value: DOP KMF: description: Comoro Franc value: KMF MYR: description: Malaysian Ringgit value: MYR FKP: description: Falkland Islands Pound value: FKP XOF: description: CFA Franc BCEAO value: XOF GEL: description: Lari value: GEL UYU: description: Uruguayan Peso value: UYU MAD: description: Moroccan Dirham value: MAD CVE: description: Cape Verde Escudo value: CVE TOP: description: Tongan Pa'anga value: TOP AZN: description: Azerbaijanian Manat value: AZN OMR: description: Omani Rial value: OMR PGK: description: Papua New Guinean Kina value: PGK KES: description: Kenyan Shilling value: KES SEK: description: Swedish Krona value: SEK BTN: description: Ngultrum value: BTN UAH: description: Ukrainian Hryvnia value: UAH GNF: description: Guinea Franc value: GNF ERN: description: Nakfa value: ERN MZN: description: Mozambican Metical value: MZN SVC: description: Salvadoran Colón value: SVC ARS: description: Argentine Peso value: ARS QAR: description: Qatari Riyal value: QAR IRR: description: Iranian Rial value: IRR NLG: description: Dutch Guilder value: NLG MRO: description: Mauritanian Ouguiya value: MRO CNY: description: Yuan Renminbi value: CNY THB: description: Thai Baht value: THB UZS: description: Uzbekistani Som value: UZS XPF: description: CFP Franc value: XPF BDT: description: Bangladeshi Taka value: BDT LYD: description: Libyan Dinar value: LYD BMD: description: Bermudian Dollar value: BMD KWD: description: Kuwaiti Dinar value: KWD PHP: description: Philippine Peso value: PHP RUB: description: Russian Ruble value: RUB PYG: description: Paraguayan Guarani value: PYG ISK: description: Iceland Krona value: ISK JMD: description: Jamaican Dollar value: JMD GWP: description: Guinea Peso value: GWP BEF: description: Belgian Franc value: BEF ESP: description: Spanish Peseta value: ESP COP: description: Colombian Peso value: COP MKD: description: Denar value: MKD USD: description: US Dollar value: USD DZD: description: Algerian Dinar value: DZD PAB: description: Panamanian Balboa value: PAB SGD: description: Singapore Dollar value: SGD ETB: description: Ethiopian Birr value: ETB KGS: description: Som value: KGS SOS: description: Somali Shilling value: SOS VEF: description: Venezuelan Bolivar Fuerte value: VEF VUV: description: Vanuatu Vatu value: VUV LAK: description: Lao Kip value: LAK BND: description: Brunei Dollar value: BND ZMK: description: Zambian Kwacha value: ZMK XAF: description: CFA Franc BEAC value: XAF LRD: description: Liberian Dollar value: LRD ATS: description: Austrian Schilling value: ATS CHF: description: Swiss Franc value: CHF HRK: description: Croatian Kuna value: HRK ITL: description: Italian Lira value: ITL ALL: description: Albanian Lek value: ALL DJF: description: Djibouti Franc value: DJF MTL: description: Maltese Lira value: MTL TZS: description: Tanzanian Shilling value: TZS VND: description: Vietnamese Dong value: VND AUD: description: Australian Dollar value: AUD ILS: description: New Israeli Sheqel value: ILS GHS: description: Ghanaian Cedi value: GHS GYD: description: Guyanese Dollar value: GYD KPW: description: North Korean Won value: KPW BOB: description: Boliviano value: BOB KHR: description: Cambodian Riel value: KHR MDL: description: Moldovan Leu value: MDL IDR: description: Indonesian Rupiah value: IDR KYD: description: Cayman Islands Dollar value: KYD AMD: description: Armenian Dram value: AMD BWP: description: Botswana Pula value: BWP SHP: description: Saint Helena Pound value: SHP TRY: description: Turkish Lira value: TRY CYP: description: Cyprus Pound value: CYP LBP: description: Lebanese Pound value: LBP TJS: description: Tajikistani Somoni value: TJS JOD: description: Jordanian Dinar value: JOD AED: description: United Arab Emirates Dirham value: AED HKD: description: Hong Kong Dollar value: HKD RWF: description: Rwanda Franc value: RWF EUR: description: Euro value: EUR LSL: description: Lesotho Loti value: LSL DKK: description: Danish Krone value: DKK CAD: description: Canadian Dollar value: CAD BGN: description: Bulgarian Lev value: BGN EEK: description: Estonian Kroon value: EEK MMK: description: Kyat value: MMK MUR: description: Mauritian Rupee value: MUR NOK: description: Norwegian Krone value: NOK SYP: description: Syrian Pound value: SYP ZWL: description: Zimbabwean Dollar value: ZWL GIP: description: Gibraltar Pound value: GIP RON: description: Romanian New Leu value: RON LKR: description: Sri Lankan Rupee value: LKR NGN: description: Nigerian Naira value: NGN CRC: description: Costa Rican Colon value: CRC CZK: description: Czech Koruna value: CZK IEP: description: Irish Pound value: IEP PKR: description: Pakistani Rupee value: PKR GRD: description: Greek Drachma value: GRD XCD: description: East Carribean Dollar value: XCD ANG: description: Netherlands Antillian Guilder value: ANG HTG: description: Haitian Gourde value: HTG BHD: description: Bahraini Dinar value: BHD SIT: description: Slovenian Tolar value: SIT PTE: description: Portuguese Escudo value: PTE BPP: description: Bonus Point Price value: BPP KZT: description: Kazakhstani Tenge value: KZT SRD: description: Surinam Dollar value: SRD SZL: description: Swazi Lilangeni value: SZL LTL: description: Lithuanian Litas value: LTL SAR: description: Saudi Riyal value: SAR TTD: description: Trinidad and Tobago Dollar value: TTD YER: description: Yemeni Rial value: YER MVR: description: Maldivian Rufiyaa value: MVR AFN: description: Afghani value: AFN BPV: description: Bonus Point Value value: BPV INR: description: Indian Rupee value: INR AWG: description: Aruban Florin value: AWG KRW: description: South Korean Won value: KRW NPR: description: Nepalese Rupee value: NPR JPY: description: Japanese Yen value: JPY MNT: description: Mongolian Tugrik value: MNT AOA: description: Angolan Kwanza value: AOA PLN: description: Polish Złoty value: PLN GBP: description: Pound Sterling value: GBP SBD: description: Solomon Islands Dollar value: SBD HUF: description: Hungarian Forint value: HUF BYR: description: Belarussian Ruble value: BYR LUF: description: Luxembourgian Franc value: LUF BIF: description: Burundi Franc value: BIF MWK: description: Malawian Kwacha value: MWK MGA: description: Malagasy Ariary value: MGA FIM: description: Finnish Mark value: FIM BZD: description: Belize Dollar value: BZD DEM: description: Deutsche Mark value: DEM BAM: description: Convertible Marks value: BAM EGP: description: Egyptian Pound value: EGP MOP: description: Macanese Pataca value: MOP NAD: description: Namibian Dollar value: NAD SKK: description: Slovakian Krona value: SKK NIO: description: Cordoba Oro value: NIO PEN: description: Peruvian Nuevo Sol value: PEN NZD: description: New Zealand Dollar value: NZD WST: description: Samoan Tala value: WST TMT: description: Turkmenistani Manat value: TMT FRF: description: French Franc value: FRF BRL: description: Brazilian Real value: BRL x-matrixParamPath: / regionals: name: regionals in: path required: false style: matrix schema: type: object properties: loc: type: string description: The locale ID example: en_US cur: type: string description: The currency code example: EUR x-matrixParamPath: / pgid: name: pgid in: path description: "The personalization group identifier, submitted as matrix parameter\ \ ```;pgid=```. Required if you want to work with customer-specific\ \ content." required: false style: matrix schema: type: string description: "The personalization group identifier, submitted as matrix parameter\ \ ```;pgid=```. Required if you want to work with customer-specific\ \ content." example: FUOGrzQ_VjORpGaN8DRGmLLE0000 example: FUOGrzQ_VjORpGaN8DRGmLLE0000 spgid: name: spgid in: path description: "The secure personalization group identifier, submitted as matrix\ \ parameter ```;spgid=```. Required if you want to work with customer-specific\ \ content." required: false style: matrix schema: type: string description: "The secure personalization group identifier, submitted as matrix\ \ parameter ```;spgid=```. Required if you want to work with customer-specific\ \ content." example: FUOGrzQ_VjORpGaN8DRGmLLE0000 example: FUOGrzQ_VjORpGaN8DRGmLLE0000 securitySchemes: bearerAuth: type: http description: "Bearer token authentication. A request contains a header field\ \ in the form of authorization: ```Bearer ```, where is a string\ \ generated by an authentication service in response to a login request." scheme: bearer bearerFormat: JWT basicAuth: type: http description: "Basic access authentication. In basic authentication, a request\ \ contains a header field in the form of authorization: ```Basic ```,\ \ where credentials is the Base64 encoding of ID and password joined by a\ \ single colon :." scheme: basic authToken: type: apiKey description: User authentication token to authenticate the request. The token is a string generated by the ICM server in the same header in every response of an REST endpoint. name: authentication-token in: header x-apiID: costcenter x-origin-class: "com.intershop.component.rest.capi.resource.RootResource,com.intershop.application.storefront.rest.b2b.capi.user.costcenter.resource.UserCostCenterListResource,com.intershop.application.storefront.rest.b2b.capi.user.costcenter.resource.UserCostCenterListResource"