---
id: 'c9623422e2e1c6550e1c06c9428c87e3'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/298D59'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:40:17.831156+00:00'
---
This guide lists functionality which is considered as deprecated for several reasons. Please see next chapter for details about its reasons.

The Tomcat Cluster Console (TCC) is an instrument to orchestrate an Intershop application cluster. This tool is able to spawn new virtual application servers and start, stop, restart single instances of application servers. Due to the introduction of CD/CI with Gradle, see [Cookbook - Setup CI Infrastructure](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/c/ENFDEVDOC/Cookbook+-+Setup+CI+Infrastructure), the TCC is obsolete, even more with virtual environments and clouds.

Therefore, Intershop has decided to deprecate this feature and not create a replacement for it.

Intershop's Test Runner is a small tool to start tests from a command line. As there are many replacements out there, this tools gets deprecated and no replacement will be provided. Check out the [Cookbook - JUnit Tests](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/c/ENFDEVDOC/Cookbook+-+JUnit+Tests+7.10) for more details.

With introduction of Gradle, Ant got obsolete. So please do not create new Ant Tasks in your projects based on Intershop Tasks anymore.

Especially Ant Tasks around Oracle DB will be removed soon. Intershop is working on support for Microsoft SQL Server. Therefore, all ties to Oracle DB specifics get cut off. DB imports and exports need to be done with the provided tools, by e.g., Oracle-like data pump `expdp`

and `impdp`

.

Table Partitioning is a feature which is used to create Oracle Partitioned Tables. Those partitions are created on DomainIds to create partitions on tables with high record numbers. With the introduction of MS SQL, we will not support this feature in MS SQL and after the deprecation phase we will remove this feature completely from ICM.

Due to its limitations on DomainId, it is much easier for an Oracle DBA or an MS SQL DBA to create those partitions directly in Oracle or MS SQL with higher flexibility.

Please see [Guide 7.9 Order Creation](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/c/ENFDEVDOC/Guide+-+7.9+Order+Creation) for details.

With the finalization of the Basket REST API, see [Reference - Basket API 1.1.0](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/c/ENFDEVDOC/Reference+-+Basket+API+1.1.0), the version 0.1.0 of the Basket API became obsolete and was deprecated.

The code artifacts for auction handling (`bc_tendering`

) are dead code and, therefore, deprecated within 7.10. There will be no replacement.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.