---
id: 'c97046661622017fa883616a252f89d0'
title: 'Reference'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/K31039'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:36:44.634197+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/K31039

This API specification is available for download as an Open API 3.0 YAML file:

The following page lists available REST APIs for ICM 11 and their version dependencies:

openapi: 3.0.1 info: title: Media Assets Management description: "The _Media Assets REST API_ allows to access files in the shared file\ \ system of Intershop Commerce Management that were uploaded via content upload.\ \ \n\n## API Versioning & Accept-Header\n\nMedia-type-based versioning is used\ \ to distinguish between different API versions. For requests to the _Media Assets\ \ REST API v1_, the REST client must set the following HTTP ```Accept``` header:\n\ \n```Accept: application/vnd.intershop.admin.mediaassets.v1+json```\n\n## Changelog\n\ - - -\n### Version 1.0.0\n* Introduced this REST API\n" contact: name: Intershop Communications AG url: http://intershop.com version: 1.0.0-beta servers: - url: "/INTERSHOP/rest/{serverGroup}/{siteName}/{appUrl}" description: Intershop ICM Server variables: serverGroup: description: The server group default: WFS siteName: description: The site name default: inSPIRED-Site appUrl: description: The application URL identifier enum: - inTRONICS - inTRONICS-b2c-responsive - inTRONICS-smb-responsive - inTRONICS-rest - inTRONICS_Business - inTRONICS_Business-smb-responsive - inTRONICS_Business-rest - ShoppingLive - ShoppingLive-b2c-responsive - inTRONICS-example - rest - rest-rest default: inTRONICS-rest paths: '{loc}{forceTotal}/mediaassets/directories/{directoryName}': get: tags: - Directories & Files summary: (beta) Returns the subdirectories and files in the directory description: "This operation returns directories and files located in the specified\ \ subdirectory. Use the ```loc``` parameter to switch between the contents\ \ for different languages. When using ```offset``` and ```limit```, directories\ \ are listed before files. The path segments ```/directories/{directoryName}```\ \ can be repeated multiple times, to browse through the file tree, e.g. ```mediaassets/directories/campaigns/directories/2023/directories/summersale```." operationId: getSubDirectoryAssets_v1 parameters: - $ref: '#/components/parameters/loc' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/forceTotal' - name: limit in: query description: Defines the maximum number of media assets in the response. The value cannot exceed the value configured by ```intershop.backoffice.rest.maxAssetAmount``` (default 50). schema: type: integer description: Defines the maximum number of media assets in the response. The value cannot exceed the value configured by ```intershop.backoffice.rest.maxAssetAmount``` (default 50). format: int32 example: 20 example: "20" - name: offset in: query description: Defines the starting position (number of elements to be skipped minus one). schema: type: integer description: Defines the starting position (number of elements to be skipped minus one). format: int32 example: 40 example: "40" - name: directoryName in: path description: The name of the subdirectory. required: true schema: type: string description: The name of the subdirectory. responses: "200": description: OK - The subdirectories and files in the directory. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.mediaassets.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/MediaAssetsRESTResponse_v1' "400": description: Bad Request - The path is invalid. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.mediaassets.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/FeedbackContainerRO_v1' "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. "404": description: Not Found - The path could not be found. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.mediaassets.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/FeedbackContainerRO_v1' x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: "public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.mediaassets.v1.capi.resource.MediaAssetsDirectoriesItemResource.getSubDirectoryAssets_v1(java.lang.Integer,java.lang.Integer)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.mediaassets.v1.capi.resource.MediaAssetsDirectoriesItemResource '{loc}{forceTotal}/mediaassets': get: tags: - Directories & Files summary: (beta) Returns directories and files in the root content directory description: "This operation returns directories and files located in the root\ \ content directory. Use the ```loc``` parameter to switch between the contents\ \ for different languages. When using ```offset``` and ```limit```, directories\ \ are listed before files." operationId: getRootAssets_v1 parameters: - $ref: '#/components/parameters/loc' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/forceTotal' - name: limit in: query description: Defines the maximum number of media assets in the response. The value cannot exceed the value configured by ```intershop.backoffice.rest.maxAssetAmount``` (default 50). schema: type: integer description: Defines the maximum number of media assets in the response. The value cannot exceed the value configured by ```intershop.backoffice.rest.maxAssetAmount``` (default 50). format: int32 example: 20 example: "20" - name: offset in: query description: Defines the starting position (number of elements to be skipped minus one). schema: type: integer description: Defines the starting position (number of elements to be skipped minus one). format: int32 example: 40 example: "40" responses: "200": description: OK - The files and directories in the root content directory. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.mediaassets.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/MediaAssetsRESTResponse_v1' "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: "public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.mediaassets.v1.capi.resource.MediaAssetsListResource.getRootAssets_v1(java.lang.Integer,java.lang.Integer)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.mediaassets.v1.capi.resource.MediaAssetsListResource '{loc}{forceTotal}/mediaassets/directories/{directoryName}/files': get: tags: - Files summary: (beta) Returns the files in the directory (root or subdirectory) description: "This operation returns files located in the specified directory.\ \ Use the ```loc``` parameter to switch between the contents for different\ \ languages. The path segment ```/directories/{directoryName}``` can be repeated\ \ multiple times to browse through the file tree, for example: ```mediaassets/directories/campaigns/directories/2023/directories/summersale/files```." operationId: getFiles_v1 parameters: - $ref: '#/components/parameters/loc' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/forceTotal' - name: limit in: query description: Defines the maximum number of media assets in the response. The value cannot exceed the value configured by ```intershop.backoffice.rest.maxAssetAmount``` (default 50). schema: type: integer description: Defines the maximum number of media assets in the response. The value cannot exceed the value configured by ```intershop.backoffice.rest.maxAssetAmount``` (default 50). format: int32 example: 20 example: "20" - name: offset in: query description: Defines the starting position (number of elements to be skipped minus one). schema: type: integer description: Defines the starting position (number of elements to be skipped minus one). format: int32 example: 40 example: "40" - name: directoryName in: path description: The name of the subdirectory. required: true schema: type: string description: The name of the subdirectory. responses: "200": description: OK - The files in the directory. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.mediaassets.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/FilesRESTResponse_v1' "400": description: Bad Request - The path is invalid. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.mediaassets.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/FeedbackContainerRO_v1' "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. "404": description: Not Found - The path could not be found. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.mediaassets.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/FeedbackContainerRO_v1' x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: "public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.mediaassets.v1.capi.resource.MediaAssetsFilesListResource.getFiles_v1(java.lang.Integer,java.lang.Integer)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.mediaassets.v1.capi.resource.MediaAssetsFilesListResource '{loc}{forceTotal}{loc}/mediaassets/files': get: tags: - Files summary: (beta) Returns the files in the directory (root or subdirectory) description: "This operation returns files located in the specified directory.\ \ Use the ```loc``` parameter to switch between the contents for different\ \ languages. The path segment ```/directories/{directoryName}``` can be repeated\ \ multiple times to browse through the file tree, for example: ```mediaassets/directories/campaigns/directories/2023/directories/summersale/files```." operationId: getFiles_v1_1 parameters: - $ref: '#/components/parameters/loc' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/forceTotal' - name: limit in: query description: Defines the maximum number of media assets in the response. The value cannot exceed the value configured by ```intershop.backoffice.rest.maxAssetAmount``` (default 50). schema: type: integer description: Defines the maximum number of media assets in the response. The value cannot exceed the value configured by ```intershop.backoffice.rest.maxAssetAmount``` (default 50). format: int32 example: 20 example: "20" - name: offset in: query description: Defines the starting position (number of elements to be skipped minus one). schema: type: integer description: Defines the starting position (number of elements to be skipped minus one). format: int32 example: 40 example: "40" - $ref: '#/components/parameters/loc' responses: "200": description: OK - The files in the directory. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.mediaassets.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/FilesRESTResponse_v1' "400": description: Bad Request - The path is invalid. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.mediaassets.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/FeedbackContainerRO_v1' "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. "404": description: Not Found - The path could not be found. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.mediaassets.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/FeedbackContainerRO_v1' x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: "public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.mediaassets.v1.capi.resource.MediaAssetsFilesListResource.getFiles_v1(java.lang.Integer,java.lang.Integer)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.mediaassets.v1.capi.resource.MediaAssetsFilesListResource '{loc}{forceTotal}/mediaassets/directories': get: tags: - Directories summary: (beta) Returns the subdirectories in the root content directory description: This operation returns subdirectories of the root content directory. Use the ```loc``` parameter to switch between the contents for different languages. operationId: getDirectories_v1 parameters: - $ref: '#/components/parameters/loc' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/forceTotal' - name: limit in: query description: Defines the maximum number of media assets in the response. The value cannot exceed the value configured by ```intershop.backoffice.rest.maxAssetAmount``` (default 50). schema: type: integer description: Defines the maximum number of media assets in the response. The value cannot exceed the value configured by ```intershop.backoffice.rest.maxAssetAmount``` (default 50). format: int32 example: 20 example: "20" - name: offset in: query description: Defines the starting position (number of elements to be skipped minus one). schema: type: integer description: Defines the starting position (number of elements to be skipped minus one). format: int32 example: 40 example: "40" responses: "200": description: OK - The subdirectories in the root content directory. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.mediaassets.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/DirectoriesRESTResponse_v1' "400": description: Bad Request - The path is invalid. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.mediaassets.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/FeedbackContainerRO_v1' "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. "404": description: Not Found - The path could not be found. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.mediaassets.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/FeedbackContainerRO_v1' x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: "public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.mediaassets.v1.capi.resource.MediaAssetsDirectoriesListResource.getDirectories_v1(java.lang.Integer,java.lang.Integer)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.mediaassets.v1.capi.resource.MediaAssetsDirectoriesListResource '{loc}{forceTotal}/mediaassets/directories/{directoryName}/directories': get: tags: - Directories summary: (beta) Returns subdirectories in a directory. description: "This operation returns subdirectories of the given directory.\ \ Use the ```loc``` parameter to switch between the contents for different\ \ languages. The path segment ```/directories/{directoryName}``` can be repeated\ \ multiple times to browse through the file tree, for example: ```mediaassets/directories/campaigns/directories/2023/directories/summersale/directories```." operationId: getDirectoriesOfSubDir_v1 parameters: - $ref: '#/components/parameters/loc' - $ref: '#/components/parameters/forceTotal' - name: directoryName in: path description: The name of the subdirectory. required: true schema: type: string - name: limit in: query description: Defines the maximum number of media assets in the response. The value cannot exceed the value configured by ```intershop.backoffice.rest.maxAssetAmount``` (default 50). schema: type: number format: int32 example: "20" - name: offset in: query description: Defines the starting position (number of elements to be skipped minus one). schema: type: number format: int32 example: "40" responses: "200": description: OK - The subdirectories in the directory. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.mediaassets.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/DirectoriesRESTResponse_v1' "400": description: Bad Request - The path is invalid. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.mediaassets.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/FeedbackContainerRO_v1' "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. "404": description: Not Found - The path could not be found. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.mediaassets.v1+json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/FeedbackContainerRO_v1' x-beta: true components: schemas: FeedbackCauseRO_v1: title: FeedbackCauseRO_v1 required: - code - message type: object properties: code: type: string description: A unique identifier for this particular occurrence of the problem (may be used for localization on client-side). example: product.name.required.error message: type: string description: A human readable message in the request's locale. example: The product name must be specified. parameters: type: array description: A map of several parameters that are used to assemble the message. items: type: object additionalProperties: type: object paths: type: array description: "A collection of JSON paths to the associated entities. Unless\ \ otherwise specified, this always refers to the request entity." example: - "\"$.name (position: 1)\"" externalDocs: url: https://github.com/json-path/JsonPath items: type: string description: A representation for the common feedback information. FeedbackRO_v1: title: FeedbackRO_v1 required: - code - message type: object properties: causes: type: array description: A collection of errors/warnings/infos that caused the feedback. items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/FeedbackCauseRO_v1' code: type: string description: A unique identifier for this particular occurrence of the problem (may be used for localization on client-side). example: product.name.required.error message: type: string description: A human readable message in the request's locale. example: The product name must be specified. parameters: type: array description: A map of several parameters that are used to assemble the message. items: type: object additionalProperties: type: object paths: type: array description: "A collection of JSON paths to the associated entities. Unless\ \ otherwise specified, this always refers to the request entity." example: - "\"$.name (position: 1)\"" externalDocs: url: https://github.com/json-path/JsonPath items: type: string level: type: string description: The level of the feedback. example: ERROR enum: - INFO - WARN - ERROR status: type: string description: The HTTP status code that is applicable to this problem. example: "422" description: An error or piece of information related to the current request. readOnly: true FileInfoRO_v1: title: FileInfoRO_v1 type: object properties: name: type: string description: Name of the file readOnly: true example: image.jpg uri: type: string description: URI to the image readOnly: true example: /INTERSHOP/static/WFS/inSPIRED-Site/-/inSPIRED/en_US/image.jpg descriptor: type: string description: The image content descriptor readOnly: true example: inSPIRED:/image.jpg description: Information about a file readOnly: true MediaAssetsDataRO_v1: title: MediaAssetsDataRO_v1 type: object properties: directories: type: array description: List of subdirectory names readOnly: true items: type: string readOnly: true files: type: array description: List of all files in this directory readOnly: true items: type: string readOnly: true description: The core data of the response object. MediaAssetsListInfoRO_v1: title: MediaAssetsListInfoRO_v1 type: object properties: files: type: array description: Further information about the files readOnly: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/FileInfoRO_v1' hasMoreElements: type: boolean description: 'Flag that expresses if there more entries available. ' readOnly: true example: true limit: type: integer description: The limit of list entries to be shown. format: int32 readOnly: true example: 20 offset: type: integer description: Excludes the first N items from the list. format: int32 readOnly: true example: 10 total: type: integer description: The total amount of entries in the list. format: int32 readOnly: true example: 30 description: The optional information about the response object. All values are also optional. MediaAssetsRESTResponse_v1: title: MediaAssetsRESTResponse_v1 type: object properties: data: $ref: '#/components/schemas/MediaAssetsDataRO_v1' info: $ref: '#/components/schemas/MediaAssetsListInfoRO_v1' messages: type: array description: List of messages regarding to the request (e.g. value adjustments). readOnly: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1' DirectoriesListInfoRO_v1: title: DirectoriesListInfoRO_v1 type: object properties: hasMoreElements: type: boolean description: 'Flag that expresses if there more entries available. ' readOnly: true example: true limit: type: integer description: The limit of list entries to be shown. format: int32 readOnly: true example: 20 offset: type: integer description: Excludes the first N items from the list. format: int32 readOnly: true example: 10 total: type: integer description: The total amount of entries in the list. format: int32 readOnly: true example: 30 description: Optional DirectoriesRESTResponse_v1: title: DirectoriesRESTResponse_v1 type: object properties: data: type: array description: List of subdirectory names items: type: string description: The core data of the response object. info: $ref: '#/components/schemas/DirectoriesListInfoRO_v1' messages: type: array description: List of messages regarding to the request (e.g. value adjustments). readOnly: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1' FeedbackContainerRO_v1: type: object properties: messages: type: array description: List of messages regarding to the request (e.g. value adjustments). readOnly: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1' FilesListInfoRO_v1: title: FilesListInfoRO_v1 type: object properties: files: type: array description: Further information about the files readOnly: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/FileInfoRO_v1' hasMoreElements: type: boolean description: 'Flag that expresses if there more entries available. ' readOnly: true example: true limit: type: integer description: The limit of list entries to be shown. format: int32 readOnly: true example: 20 offset: type: integer description: Excludes the first N items from the list. format: int32 readOnly: true example: 10 total: type: integer description: The total amount of entries in the list. format: int32 readOnly: true example: 30 description: The optional information about the response object. All values are also optional. FilesRESTResponse_v1: title: FilesRESTResponse_v1 type: object properties: data: type: array description: List of file names items: type: string description: The core data of the response object. info: $ref: '#/components/schemas/FilesListInfoRO_v1' messages: type: array description: List of messages regarding to the request (e.g. value adjustments). readOnly: true items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1' responses: "200": description: OK "201": description: Created "202": description: Accepted "204": description: No Content "205": description: Reset Content "206": description: Partial Content "300": description: Multiple Choices "301": description: Moved Permanently "302": description: Found "303": description: See Other "304": description: Not Modified "305": description: Use Proxy "307": description: Temporary Redirect "308": description: Permanent Redirect "400": description: Bad Request "401": description: Unauthorized "402": description: Payment Required "403": description: Forbidden "404": description: Not Found "405": description: Method Not Allowed "406": description: Not Acceptable "407": description: Proxy Authentication Required "408": description: Request Timeout "409": description: Conflict "410": description: Gone "411": description: Length Required "412": description: Precondition Failed "413": description: Request Entity Too Large "414": description: Request-URI Too Long "415": description: Unsupported Media Type "416": description: Requested Range Not Satisfiable "417": description: Expectation Failed "428": description: Precondition Required "429": description: Too Many Requests "431": description: Request Header Fields Too Large "451": description: Unavailable For Legal Reasons "500": description: Internal Server Error "501": description: Not Implemented "502": description: Bad Gateway "503": description: Service Unavailable "504": description: Gateway Timeout "505": description: HTTP Version Not Supported "511": description: Network Authentication Required parameters: loc: name: loc in: path description: "The locale ID (submitted as optional matrix parameter ```;loc=```).\ \ If omitted, the priority is as follows (from high to low): Locale ID parameter,\ \ user's default locale, site's default locale. The available locales depend\ \ on your individual Intershop Commerce Management installation. Use IANA\ \ language definitions for languages and regions and combine them using a\ \ underscore, e. g. ```en_US```." required: false style: matrix schema: type: string description: "The locale ID (submitted as optional matrix parameter ```;loc=```).\ \ If omitted, the priority is as follows (from high to low): Locale ID parameter,\ \ user's default locale, site's default locale. The available locales depend\ \ on your individual Intershop Commerce Management installation. Use IANA\ \ language definitions for languages and regions and combine them using\ \ a underscore, e. g. ```en_US```." default: en_US examples: en_US: description: English (United States) value: en_US fr_FR: description: French (France) value: fr_FR de_DE: description: German (Germany) value: de_DE x-matrixParamPath: / cur: name: cur in: path description: "The currency code (submitted as optional matrix parameter ```;cur=```).\ \ If omitted, the site's or user's default currency is used." required: false style: matrix schema: type: string description: "The currency code (submitted as optional matrix parameter ```;cur=```).\ \ If omitted, the site's or user's default currency is used." default: USD examples: FJD: description: Fiji Dollar value: FJD MXN: description: Mexican Peso value: MXN STD: description: São Tomé / Príncipe Dobra value: STD LVL: description: Latvian Lats value: LVL SCR: description: Seychelles Rupee value: SCR CDF: description: Congolese Franc value: CDF BBD: description: Barbados Dollar value: BBD GTQ: description: Guatemalan Quetzal value: GTQ CLP: description: Chilean Peso value: CLP HNL: description: Honduran Lempira value: HNL UGX: description: Ugandan Shilling value: UGX ZAR: description: South African Rand value: ZAR TND: description: Tunisian Dinar value: TND BSD: description: Bahamian Dollar value: BSD SLL: description: Sierra Leonean Leone value: SLL SDG: description: Sudanese Pound value: SDG IQD: description: Iraqi Dinar value: IQD CUP: description: Cuban Peso value: CUP GMD: description: Gambian Dalasi value: GMD TWD: description: New Taiwan Dollar value: TWD RSD: description: Serbian Dinar value: RSD ZRZ: description: Zaire value: ZRZ DOP: description: Dominican Peso value: DOP KMF: description: Comoro Franc value: KMF MYR: description: Malaysian Ringgit value: MYR FKP: description: Falkland Islands Pound value: FKP XOF: description: CFA Franc BCEAO value: XOF GEL: description: Lari value: GEL UYU: description: Uruguayan Peso value: UYU MAD: description: Moroccan Dirham value: MAD CVE: description: Cape Verde Escudo value: CVE TOP: description: Tongan Pa'anga value: TOP AZN: description: Azerbaijanian Manat value: AZN OMR: description: Omani Rial value: OMR PGK: description: Papua New Guinean Kina value: PGK KES: description: Kenyan Shilling value: KES SEK: description: Swedish Krona value: SEK BTN: description: Ngultrum value: BTN UAH: description: Ukrainian Hryvnia value: UAH GNF: description: Guinea Franc value: GNF ERN: description: Nakfa value: ERN MZN: description: Mozambican Metical value: MZN SVC: description: Salvadoran Colón value: SVC ARS: description: Argentine Peso value: ARS QAR: description: Qatari Riyal value: QAR IRR: description: Iranian Rial value: IRR NLG: description: Dutch Guilder value: NLG MRO: description: Mauritanian Ouguiya value: MRO CNY: description: Yuan Renminbi value: CNY THB: description: Thai Baht value: THB UZS: description: Uzbekistani Som value: UZS XPF: description: CFP Franc value: XPF BDT: description: Bangladeshi Taka value: BDT LYD: description: Libyan Dinar value: LYD BMD: description: Bermudian Dollar value: BMD KWD: description: Kuwaiti Dinar value: KWD PHP: description: Philippine Peso value: PHP RUB: description: Russian Ruble value: RUB PYG: description: Paraguayan Guarani value: PYG ISK: description: Iceland Krona value: ISK JMD: description: Jamaican Dollar value: JMD GWP: description: Guinea Peso value: GWP BEF: description: Belgian Franc value: BEF ESP: description: Spanish Peseta value: ESP COP: description: Colombian Peso value: COP MKD: description: Denar value: MKD USD: description: US Dollar value: USD DZD: description: Algerian Dinar value: DZD PAB: description: Panamanian Balboa value: PAB SGD: description: Singapore Dollar value: SGD ETB: description: Ethiopian Birr value: ETB KGS: description: Som value: KGS SOS: description: Somali Shilling value: SOS VEF: description: Venezuelan Bolivar Fuerte value: VEF VUV: description: Vanuatu Vatu value: VUV LAK: description: Lao Kip value: LAK BND: description: Brunei Dollar value: BND ZMK: description: Zambian Kwacha value: ZMK XAF: description: CFA Franc BEAC value: XAF LRD: description: Liberian Dollar value: LRD ATS: description: Austrian Schilling value: ATS CHF: description: Swiss Franc value: CHF HRK: description: Croatian Kuna value: HRK ITL: description: Italian Lira value: ITL ALL: description: Albanian Lek value: ALL DJF: description: Djibouti Franc value: DJF MTL: description: Maltese Lira value: MTL TZS: description: Tanzanian Shilling value: TZS VND: description: Vietnamese Dong value: VND AUD: description: Australian Dollar value: AUD ILS: description: New Israeli Sheqel value: ILS GHS: description: Ghanaian Cedi value: GHS GYD: description: Guyanese Dollar value: GYD KPW: description: North Korean Won value: KPW BOB: description: Boliviano value: BOB KHR: description: Cambodian Riel value: KHR MDL: description: Moldovan Leu value: MDL IDR: description: Indonesian Rupiah value: IDR KYD: description: Cayman Islands Dollar value: KYD AMD: description: Armenian Dram value: AMD BWP: description: Botswana Pula value: BWP SHP: description: Saint Helena Pound value: SHP TRY: description: Turkish Lira value: TRY CYP: description: Cyprus Pound value: CYP LBP: description: Lebanese Pound value: LBP TJS: description: Tajikistani Somoni value: TJS JOD: description: Jordanian Dinar value: JOD AED: description: United Arab Emirates Dirham value: AED HKD: description: Hong Kong Dollar value: HKD RWF: description: Rwanda Franc value: RWF EUR: description: Euro value: EUR LSL: description: Lesotho Loti value: LSL DKK: description: Danish Krone value: DKK CAD: description: Canadian Dollar value: CAD BGN: description: Bulgarian Lev value: BGN EEK: description: Estonian Kroon value: EEK MMK: description: Kyat value: MMK MUR: description: Mauritian Rupee value: MUR NOK: description: Norwegian Krone value: NOK SYP: description: Syrian Pound value: SYP ZWL: description: Zimbabwean Dollar value: ZWL GIP: description: Gibraltar Pound value: GIP RON: description: Romanian New Leu value: RON LKR: description: Sri Lankan Rupee value: LKR NGN: description: Nigerian Naira value: NGN CRC: description: Costa Rican Colon value: CRC CZK: description: Czech Koruna value: CZK IEP: description: Irish Pound value: IEP PKR: description: Pakistani Rupee value: PKR GRD: description: Greek Drachma value: GRD XCD: description: East Carribean Dollar value: XCD ANG: description: Netherlands Antillian Guilder value: ANG HTG: description: Haitian Gourde value: HTG BHD: description: Bahraini Dinar value: BHD SIT: description: Slovenian Tolar value: SIT PTE: description: Portuguese Escudo value: PTE BPP: description: Bonus Point Price value: BPP KZT: description: Kazakhstani Tenge value: KZT SRD: description: Surinam Dollar value: SRD SZL: description: Swazi Lilangeni value: SZL LTL: description: Lithuanian Litas value: LTL SAR: description: Saudi Riyal value: SAR TTD: description: Trinidad and Tobago Dollar value: TTD YER: description: Yemeni Rial value: YER MVR: description: Maldivian Rufiyaa value: MVR AFN: description: Afghani value: AFN BPV: description: Bonus Point Value value: BPV INR: description: Indian Rupee value: INR AWG: description: Aruban Florin value: AWG KRW: description: South Korean Won value: KRW NPR: description: Nepalese Rupee value: NPR JPY: description: Japanese Yen value: JPY MNT: description: Mongolian Tugrik value: MNT AOA: description: Angolan Kwanza value: AOA PLN: description: Polish Złoty value: PLN GBP: description: Pound Sterling value: GBP SBD: description: Solomon Islands Dollar value: SBD HUF: description: Hungarian Forint value: HUF BYR: description: Belarussian Ruble value: BYR LUF: description: Luxembourgian Franc value: LUF BIF: description: Burundi Franc value: BIF MWK: description: Malawian Kwacha value: MWK MGA: description: Malagasy Ariary value: MGA FIM: description: Finnish Mark value: FIM BZD: description: Belize Dollar value: BZD DEM: description: Deutsche Mark value: DEM BAM: description: Convertible Marks value: BAM EGP: description: Egyptian Pound value: EGP MOP: description: Macanese Pataca value: MOP NAD: description: Namibian Dollar value: NAD SKK: description: Slovakian Krona value: SKK NIO: description: Cordoba Oro value: NIO PEN: description: Peruvian Nuevo Sol value: PEN NZD: description: New Zealand Dollar value: NZD WST: description: Samoan Tala value: WST TMT: description: Turkmenistani Manat value: TMT FRF: description: French Franc value: FRF BRL: description: Brazilian Real value: BRL x-matrixParamPath: / regionals: name: regionals in: path required: false style: matrix schema: type: object properties: loc: type: string description: The locale ID example: en_US cur: type: string description: The currency code example: EUR x-matrixParamPath: / pgid: name: pgid in: path description: "The personalization group identifier, submitted as matrix parameter\ \ ```;pgid=```. Required if you want to work with customer-specific\ \ content." required: false style: matrix schema: type: string description: "The personalization group identifier, submitted as matrix parameter\ \ ```;pgid=```. Required if you want to work with customer-specific\ \ content." example: FUOGrzQ_VjORpGaN8DRGmLLE0000 example: FUOGrzQ_VjORpGaN8DRGmLLE0000 spgid: name: spgid in: path description: "The secure personalization group identifier, submitted as matrix\ \ parameter ```;spgid=```. Required if you want to work with customer-specific\ \ content." required: false style: matrix schema: type: string description: "The secure personalization group identifier, submitted as matrix\ \ parameter ```;spgid=```. Required if you want to work with customer-specific\ \ content." example: FUOGrzQ_VjORpGaN8DRGmLLE0000 example: FUOGrzQ_VjORpGaN8DRGmLLE0000 forceTotal: name: forceTotal in: path description: "Flag indicating whether the calculation of the total number of\ \ elements should be forced, passed as an optional matrix parameter ```;forceTotal=true```." required: false style: matrix schema: type: string description: "Flag indicating whether the calculation of the total number\ \ of elements should be forced, passed as an optional matrix parameter ```;forceTotal=true```." example: "true" example: "true" x-matrixParamPath: / x-apiID: media_assets_v1 x-beta: "true" x-origin-class: "com.intershop.component.rest.capi.resource.RootResource,com.intershop.application.rest.mediaassets.v1.capi.resource.MediaAssetsListResource"

[Open ReDoc-rendered Open API documentation in separate window.](https://knowledge.intershop.com/rdd/Redoc-K31039.html)

## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.