---
id: 'c9ea2d9c26820509fe75615688b7358c'
title: 'Improved Product and Catalog Deletion/Unsharing via JDBC/Batch Processing'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3F1249'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:32.912956+00:00'
---
Removal of products as well as catalogs with subcategories took quite some time for a very large number of objects to be deleted, regardless of whether this was done via bulk operation or product import in delete mode, within BMECat or via manual deletion, respectively. In all these cases an individual treatment based on the business objects has been used so far. To improve performance and enable the removal of large quantities of categories and products, the catalog/categories and product removal now allows for JDBC/batch processing based on direct SQL statements. This approach for deletion can be activated now. However the previous deletion method is still available and will remain the default for now.

The process of unsharing a large number of products required a significant amount of time to complete. To improve performance, several outbound sharing related actions now use JDBC/Batch processing based on direct SQL statements. This approach can be selectively activated. The previous method for unsharing products is still available and remains the default for now.

For further information on how to set properties/preferences, see [Concept - Configuration](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/47859113552).

The deletion/removal/unsharing operation itself has no recognizable difference apart from the performance improvements. There is only a change in the quoting area: when deleting or unsharing products, quotes containing at least one of the removed products will be automatically set to rejected and a message is added to the seller comment. This behavior can be disabled if needed.

JDBC/batch processing can be enabled for the following operations/areas . For further details, see [Concept - Product & Catalog JDBC/Batch Deletion and Unsharing](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48849453057/Concept+-+Product+Catalog+JDBC+Batch+Deletion+and+Unsharing).

Product deletion

BMECat import (also subcategory deletion)

Product bulk deletion

Standard product import (XML) in DELETE mode

Product unsharing

Delete channel sharing assignments

Delete sharing groups (from Outbound Product Sharing overview page only)

Remove products from a sharing group

Delete channel assignments from a sharing group

Delete sharing group assignments from a channel

Change sharing type of a channel to “share nothing”

Catalog/categories deletion

Catalog sharing deletion

Remove catalog sharing assigned to channels in the master catalog’s *Channels *tab

Is only necessary, if the JDBC/Batch deletion is used.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.