---
id: 'cb1c7740ed697571dbece8fd52a15993'
title: 'ISML Tag'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2474T8'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:16.617840+00:00'
---
This tag is only allowed as child element of [ <ISLOOP> ](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1775688850/ISML+Tag+-+ISLOOP).

`<ISLOOP>`

to loop through the elements of a specified iterator. For example, using `<ISLOOP>`

you can list iterable data like categories, products, shipping, or payment methods on a web page.Multiple `<ISLOOP>`

statements can be nested to construct more complex loop structures.

`<ISLOOP>`

has the two supporting tags `<ISBREAK>`

and [ <ISNEXT> ](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1775688890/ISML+Tag+-+ISNEXT). Both tags can only be used inside the

`<ISLOOP>`

tag. `<ISBREAK>`

within an `<ISLOOP>`

construct to unconditionally terminate the loop. If `<ISBREAK>`

is used in a nested loop, it will only terminate the inner loop. `<ISBREAK>`

tag is used within `<ISIF>`

`<ISNEXT>`

to jump forward to the next element in an iterator. In nested loops, this tag affects only the iterator of the inner loop. In case an iterator has already reached its last element, or an iterator is empty when an `<ISNEXT>`

is processed, the loop is terminated instantly.<isloop iterator = "{ISML variable identifier}" [ alias = "{simple name}" ] [ counter = "{counter name}" ] > ... some HTML and ISML code ... [<isnext>]* [<isbreak>] </isloop>

In this example, `<ISBREAK>`

terminates the loop after displaying three product names, even if the products iterator contains more than three products:

<ISSET name="counter" value="#0#"> <ISLOOP iterator="basket:product"> <ISPRINT value="#product:name#"> <BR> <ISSET name="counter" value="#counter + 1#"> <ISIF condition="#counter >= 3#"> <ISBREAK> </ISIF> </ISLOOP>

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.