---
id: 'cb5fcaac9ce4429a0bec472e61339203'
title: 'Exporting Content Assets'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/324H13'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:10.307625+00:00'
---
# Exporting Content Assets

Intershop Commerce Management allows for either exporting the complete set of content assets or limiting the export scope to a selected content asset type (pages, includes, page templates, component templates, page variants, components). In addition, you can choose to export the content into either an XML file or an internally structured ZIP archive.

The complete content asset export includes:

- Pagelet entry points,
- Pagelet to pagelet entry point assignments,
- Pagelet entry point assignments,
- Page variants,
- Components,
- Slot assignments,
- Page templates,
- Shared page templates,
- Component templates,
- Shared component templates,
- Placeholder assignments.

To export content assets in XML format:

-
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Import & Export.
This displays the Import & Export overview page.
-
In the row of the intended export scope (Content|Pages|Includes|Page Templates|Component Templates|Page Variants|Components), click Export.
This displays the Configure Export page. When exporting a specific content asset type, select the items to be exported from the list or perform a search.
-
Specify a name and the output format for the export target file.
Tip:You do not have to provide a file name extension. It is added automatically according to your file format selection.
-
Optionally, click Include Audit Information.
This displays a date selector, which allows you to set a start date for the audit data to be included with the export.Note:Including audit information will impact the export execution time and the export file size.
-
Click Export.
The export process is started immediately. The Import & Export Status dialog is displayed.
-
Download the export file.
For details, see
[Downloading Content Asset Export Files](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/content_management/task_downloading_export_files1.html).