---
id: 'cba1b4e384432e76f2e5b7dfc333ef16'
title: 'Configuring a Promotion Discount'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/G32565'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:21.509833+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/G32565

# Configuring a Promotion Discount

To configure a discount for a promotion rule:
-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Marketing | Promotions.
This displays the list of all promotions in the current sales channel.

-
Click the name of the promotion you intend to edit.
This opens the details view for the promotion.

-
Select the Discount Rules tab.
The tab shows all rules currently configured for the promotion. If no rules have been configured so far, the tab shows a single empty rule.

-
Add a discount.
In the promotion discount section of the rule you want to edit, click New, to add a new discount. A drop down list with available discount types is displayed.

-
From the drop-down list choose a discount type, then click Apply.
Depending on the selected discount type, more configuration steps may be required. For a description of the available options and the information required to configure the different discount types, see

[Discount Rules](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/online_marketing/topic_discount_rules.html#con_mkt_promo_rules).

-
Once you have entered all required information, click OK to create the discount.

## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.