---
id: 'cbf4b0b88359a7b3c180dcc18bc062b9'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2359D9'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:37:19.900015+00:00'
---
Web analytics services are responsible for getting information about the customer. These data are necessary to optimize processes and marketing. This information has many aspects:

Web analytics services are responsible to collect the business data and transfer these data to the analytics service.

Most pages of the storefront are cached. So the main pipelines of a page will not be executed again if the page has been cached. This can lead to missing tracking events when the server side tracks the events. It is important that the implementation uses uncached remote includes to trigger the events. The client-side tracking implements the analytics services call via a Java script or tracking pixels. Mostly, the client-side tracking depends on the service provider's needs.

A web analytics integration combines two major implementation tasks:

The first task can be achieved by using the [Business Tracking Framework](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1758634321/Concept+-+Business+Tracking). The storefront application provides a growing set of business events.

The second task depends on the service to integrate. A comparable demo client-side integration is available at [Cookbook - WebAnalytics](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1768456370/Cookbook+-+WebAnalytics).

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.