---
id: 'cbf541553edfb064a2bfd723a614a66a'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/253D75'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:39:51.820159+00:00'
---
In previous versions of Intershop 7 a promotion's validity is based on the session start time. Effect: A promotion is granted even if the promotion end time had passed or if the promotion budget had been exhausted during a storefront session.

Since Intershop 7.4 it is possible to use the current time for promotion validity checking, too. If the current time is used, a promotion is no longer applicable if its end date is reached or its budget is exhausted.

Scenario "Session" (default) | Scenario "Time" |
|---|---|
A promotion will A promotion | A promotion will be applied to all active sessions within the activation time frame of the promotion, independent from the session start and end date. |
A completely before promotion starts B starts before and ends in promotion time C starts before and ends after promotion time D starts in and ends in promotion time E starts in and ends after promotion time F completely after promotion time |


The desired preference can be set in the back office.

When setting the *Validity Behavior* to *Time*, the basket will be re-calculated on promotion status changes.

This ensures that a promotion that becomes active during the session is automatically applied and that an expired promotion is immediately removed from the shopping basket.

* *

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.