---
id: 'cc38cceb40bda85a84132ec3e2958181'
title: 'Setup and Run a Solr Cloud Cluster for Production'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/28A509'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:39:42.297308+00:00'
---
The Solr server can run in cloud mode (using the new collections API) and in stand-alone mode (using the Core API as before). The new ICM connector uses the collection API, thus requiring the Solr server running in Solr cloud mode.

The official documentation can be found here:

The following steps have to be executed:

Start a command line (Java environment needs to work; test with `java -version`

) at *c:\dev\solr\bin*.

Test run the Solr Cloud server (start the Solr server with the *cloud* example). The questions can be answered with the default values (just hit the *<return>* key).

solr start -e cloud

The Following steps have to be executed:

Test run the Solr Cloud server (start the Solr server with the cloud example).

The questions can be answered with the default values (just hit the *Enter* key).* *

./solr start -e cloud

These steps refer to windows. For Linux, the corresponding native script should be used!

The following steps have to be executed:

Start the Solr server in the */bin* directory of your installation with the following options:

solr start -c

This will run a Solr server in cloud mode listening on the default port 8983.

There are many other options. The following table lists some helpful options:

| Command line options | Example | Description |
|---|---|---|
| -c | solr start -c | run in the cloud mode (required) |
| -p | solr start -c -p 8000 | listen at the port set instead of the default port |
| -s | solr start -c -s C:\indexes | server directory to place indexes into a different location |
| -help | solr start -help | shows a list of start options |

The zookeeper is started embedded with the zkport = port + 1000.

You can use `solr start -c -p <port> -s <serverDirFromPoint1> -z <zooKeeperHost:zkPort>`

to connect your instance to a running zoo keeper instance. The embedded zookeeper is not started with the `-z`

option. Each server contributing to the same Solr cluster needs an own server directory.

Configure the `solrZooKeeperHostList`

property in the *environment.properties* of your developer home to point to the running Solr embedded ZooKeeper.

#list of ZooKeeper connection urls (separated by ';'), which manage the Solr cluster solrZooKeeperHostList = localhost:9983 #prefix to distinguish solr indexes, within the Solr cluster #solrClusterIndexPrefix =

solrClusterIndexPrefix

Optional, but if multiple ICM installations use the same Solr Cloud cluster, it is necessary to distinguish them. For more details, see [Guide - Deployment Solr Cloud Server#Configuration of IS7](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Guide-DeploymentSolrCloudServer-ConfigurationofIS7).

Stop the Solr server if not required.

solr stop -p <startPort>

Apache Solr provides the ability to set up a cluster of Solr servers. This will combine fault tolerance and high availability and provide distributed indexing and distributed search capabilities, automatic load-balancing and fail-over for queries. The central configuration and coordination for the entire cluster is done with Apache ZooKeeper. Installation of ZooKeeper and Solr is well-described in the given references below:

In addition, an example setup is described in the next section.

The following section describes a minimal Solr cluster setup of 3 servers. Each server runs a ZooKeeper and a Solr server. The host names of the three servers are noted in the example configuration as `<host name 1>`

, `<host name 2>`

, `<host name 3>`

. Those are just symbolic names used in this document. You need to replace them with real host names that fit your needs. The setup uses the default locations and does only a minimum set of configurations. You may need to adapt memory and other settings according to the requirements. See Solr Production Setup ([6.6](http://lucene.apache.org/solr/guide/6_6/taking-solr-to-production.html) | [8.1](http://lucene.apache.org/solr/guide/8_1/taking-solr-to-production.html)) in the Apache Solr Reference Guide.

ZooKeeper as well as Solr require a Java JDK. Solr requires version 1.8 or higher, ZooKeeper a Java version 1.6 or higher.

Install the JDK for your platform with version 1.8 or higher.

Check that you can run Java and check that you have installed an appropriate version.

# cd /usr/java/jdk1.8.0/bin # ./java -version java version "1.8.0_131" Java(TM) SE Runtime Environment (build 1.8.0_131-b11) Java HotSpot(TM) 64-Bit Server VM (build 25.131-b11, mixed mode)

Create a user and a group for this kind of installation. It is also possible to use an existing user.

groupadd -g 200 solr useradd -g solr -m -u 200 solr

All installation steps are executed by the root user.

Install the release to */opt* and create a link for the special version.

tar -xvf zookeeper-3.5.7.tar.gz -C /opt ln -s /opt/zookeeper-3.5.7 /opt/zookeeper

Create a configuration file named *zoo.cfg* in */opt/zookeeper/conf.*

rm -f /opt/zookeeper/conf/zoo.cfg cat <<EOT >> /opt/zookeeper/conf/zoo.cfg tickTime=2000 dataDir=/var/zookeeper/data clientPort=2181 initLimit=5 syncLimit=2 server.1=<host name 1>:2888:3888 server.2=<host name 2>:2888:3888 server.3=<host name 3>:2888:3888 EOT

Create necessary directories.

mkdir -p /var/zookeeper/data mkdir -p /var/zookeeper/logs

Create a *myid* text file in the ZooKeeper data directory */var/zookeeper/data* and put the server id in that file on a single line. For `<host name 1>`

it would be `1`

. On other nodes use different IDs.

echo "1" >/var/zookeeper/data/myid

Setup the logging by changing the default logging environment. Create */opt/zookeeper/conf/zookeeper-env.sh* and set the environment variables.

rm /opt/zookeeper/conf/zookeeper-env.sh cat <<EOT >> /opt/zookeeper/conf/zookeeper-env.sh JAVA_HOME=/usr/java/jdk1.8.0 ZOO_LOG_DIR=/var/zookeeper/logs ZOO_LOG4J_PROP="WARN, ROLLINGFILE" EOT

Change the owner of all files and directories.

chown -R solr:solr /opt/zookeeper chown -R solr:solr /var/zookeeper chown -R solr:solr /opt/zookeeper-3.4.10

Add the service configuration and enable this service.

cat <<EOT >> /etc/systemd/system/zookeeper.service [Unit] Description=Zookeeper Server After=network.target [Service] Type=forking User=solr Group=solr SyslogIdentifier=zookeeper Restart=always RestartSec=0s ExecStart=/opt/zookeeper/bin/zkServer.sh start ExecStop=/opt/zookeeper/bin/zkServer.sh stop ExecReload=/opt/zookeeper/bin/zkServer.sh restart [Install] WantedBy=multi-user.target EOT

systemctl daemon-reload systemctl enable zookeeper # start zookeeper instance systemctl start zookeeper # stop the service if necessary # systemctl stop zookeeper

Note

Repeat all the above steps beginning with the Java installation on each server node.

All installation steps are executed by the root user.

Get the latest Solr 8 *.tgz* package, extract and execute the installation script for the user 'solr':

tar xzf solr-8.6.0.tgz solr-8.6.0/bin/install_solr_service.sh --strip-components=2 ./install_solr_service.sh solr-8.6.0.tgz -u solr -n

Change the default configuration of the Solr server instance.

Set the `ZK_HOST`

variable of the Solr node to connect to your ZooKeeper ensemble.

This will automatically put your Solr server instance into Solr *cloud* mode.

Enable and change the `SOLR_LOG_LEVEL`

to set it to the desired log level.

Info

Edit */etc/default/solr.in.sh*, uncomment and change the 2 environment variables as below. Other settings like memory size may be changed as needed.

cat <<EOT >> /etc/default/solr.in.sh SOLR_JAVA_HOME=/usr/java/jdk1.8.0 ZK_HOST=<host name 1>:2181,<host name 2>:2181,<host name 3>:2181 SOLR_LOG_LEVEL=WARN EOT

In data replication environments a backup location must be available for all Solr nodes and must be configured as an allowed path in the according system property.

SOLR_OPTS="$SOLR_OPTS -Dsolr.allowPaths=/mnt/solr_backup"

Set up the Solr server service.

cat <<EOT >> /etc/systemd/system/solr.service [Unit] Description=Apache SOLR After=network.target [Service] Type=forking User=solr Group=solr Environment=SOLR_INCLUDE=/etc/default/solr.in.sh ExecStart=/opt/solr/bin/solr start ExecStop=/opt/solr/bin/solr stop Restart=always [Install] WantedBy=multi-user.target EOT

systemctl daemon-reload systemctl enable solr # start sole instance systemctl start solr # stop the service if necessary # systemctl stop solr

Remove the old init script '`/etc/init.d/solr`

'.

Note

Repeat the installation on all server nodes.

If the Solr server is used for an ICM data replication system, a location for backups at the Solr server is required. This must be a shared storage location that is available on all Solr nodes with the same path. See also [Guide - Solr Replication](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1827645754/Guide+-+Solr+Replication) for more information.

Create a backup directory and export it on the first node:

mkdir /mnt/solr_backup vi /etc/exports /mnt/solr_backup <host name 2>(rw,sync,no_subtree_check) /mnt/solr_backup <host name 3>(rw,sync,no_subtree_check)

Mount it on the other Solr nodes:

mount -t nfs <host name 1>:/mnt/solr_backup /mnt/solr_backup

Clean-up the backups of old replication processes regularly.

#delete the backup directories older than 7 days find /var/solr/backup -mindepth 1 -maxdepth 1 -daystart -mtime +7 -type d -print -exec rm -rf '{}' \;

Configure the `solrZooKeeperHostList`

and the `solrClusterIndexPrefix`

properties to the ZooKeeper ensemble in your deployment, see here [Recipe - Add Solr Cloud Search Service](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1826510692/Cookbook+-+Gradle+Assembly+Tools#Cookbook-GradleAssemblyTools-Recipe-AddSolrCloudSearchService).

solrZooKeeperHostList=<host name 1>:2181,<host name 2>:2181,<host name 3>:2181

solrClusterIndexPrefix

`solrClusterIndexPrefix`

=myserver-1

Optional, but if multiple ICM installations use the same Solr cloud cluster, it is necessary to distinguish them.

Adapt the `collectionReplicationFactor`

property, please see here [Recipe: Configure Intershop 7](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1826510540/Cookbook+-+Deployment+Tools+ICM+7.9#Cookbook-DeploymentToolsICM7.9-ConfigureIntershop7).

collectionReplicationFactor

solr.collectionReplicationFactor=2

Must be set for production systems

In data replication systems it is required to configure the backup location of the Solr server.

solr.cloudBackupLocation

solr.cloudBackupLocation=/mnt/solr_backup

The following configuration options for connecting to and for configuring Solr Cloud exist in IS7:

AppServer environment.properties | Solr adapter cartridge properties $IS_SHARE/system/config/cartridges/ | Description | Example |
|---|---|---|---|
| solrZooKeeperHostList | solr.zooKeeperHostList | List of ZooKeeper host:port configurations (separated by ';') that hold the Solr cluster. | mysolrzookeeperserver.com:9983 |
| solrClusterIndexPrefix | solr.clusterIndexPrefix | A prefix to distinguish Solr collections within the Solr cluster if multiple ICM installations use the same Solr cloud cluster. | cbk-prod-live |
| solr.SocketTimeout | The socket timeout in seconds that is set at the HttpClient when waiting for data. | 30 | |
| solr.ConnectionTimeout | The connection timeout in seconds that is set at the HttpClient for waiting for a connection. | 15 | |
| solr.collectionNumberOfShards | Solr Cloud supports sharding for load balancing and distribution of large amounts of data. | 1 | |
| solr.collectionReplicationFactor | Solr Cloud supports replicas. Solr replicas are copies of the same index data, for load balancing and fault tolerance. | 2 | |
| solr.cloudBackupLocation | Staging of an index (collection) in Solr cloud requires:
This requires a shared file system accessible by all Solr cloud servers in the Edit Solr cloud as well as in the Live Solr cloud. Note The Solr cloud backup location is mandatory for IS7 replication/staging systems. | /mnt/solr_backup On Windows escape backslashes in the property: D:\\mnt\\solr_backup | |
| solr.removeCollectionAfterReplication | After staging/replication the old collection is still available as a shadow collection. Possible values: true, false | false | |
solr.collectionSuffix1 solr.collectionSuffix2 | In a replication environment the general collection name is just an alias. During replication the shadow collection is removed and the backup of the collection from the source system is restored to be the new shadow collection. Then the alias is switched from the active collection to the shadow collection. Default for solr.collectionSuffix1: .1 | solr.collectionSuffix1=.1 solr.collectionSuffix2=.2 |

All properties can be overridden in the *${environment}.properties* file. The exact name of this properties file depends on your configured environment (`environment=development`

) Please see [environment.properties](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1755483166#Concept-Configuration(validto7.10.11)-environmentproperties) for more details.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.