---
id: 'cc5d0053cb7d2540ddbfe527228331bd'
title: 'ISML Custom Tag'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/D24811'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:29.916891+00:00'
---
Conceptually, a page entry point itself is empty and cannot be rendered. It is the set of intra-page artifacts that will embody a certain appearance of a page entry point at the given circumstances (i.e. request time, personalization, etc). For all the different kinds of pages, the rendering starts with the selection of a `PageletAssignment`

. The selection of the page entry point depends on what kind of page needs to be rendered.

`<ISGETPAGELETENTRYPOINT>`

is used to determine such a page entry point.

<isGetPageletEntryPoint ( PageletEntryPointID = "( {ISML expression} )" PageletEntryPointUUID = "( {String} | {ISML expression} )" )>

`<ISGETPAGELETENTRYPOINT>`

returns a PageletEntryPoint object identified by one of the two optional parameters. The return value of the PageletEntryPoint is a pipline dictionary key by which the object can be called.

With the page object it is possible to render the page object or to produce a list of links to realize a navigation over the sub pages of the found page object.

`PageletEntryPointUUID`

The UUID of the page entry point (optional).

`PageletEntryPointID`

The ID of the page entry point (optional).

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.