---
id: 'cd0eaaff62f350ce75c72d9a4dbc9183'
title: 'Job'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/Y29538'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:40:53.345362+00:00'
---
Name | DeleteDomainReferences |
|---|---|
Domain | root |
Job Dependencies | none |
AcquiredResources | none |
Cartridge | core |
Pipeline | TriggerDeleteDomainReferences-Start |
Affected Domain Objects | All POs with domain relations. |
Affected Tables | All 'base' tables (table.domainID) with foreign key references to table Domain.UUID. Additionally all hierarchical 'child' tables referencing the 'base' tables are affected. |
Stored Procedure | sp_delete<Name>ByDomain |
Default State | Enabled |
Is Site Specific | True |
Edit State | Globally Enabled |
Live State | Disabled |
Description | Triggers domain deletion cleanup. |
Scheduling | Manually after a domain was marked for deletion. |
What Happens Switched Off | Old marked as to be deleted domain (potentially mass data) content still exists. |
Trouble Shooting | Too complex to run all the specific stored procedures with correct order and for all related domains (sites, units, organizations, ...). Only the job can handle domain deletion. |
Comments |

Product Version | 7.4 |
|---|---|
Product To Version | |
| Status |

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.