---
id: 'cdaf0492256480a91024055632617a4a'
title: 'Assigning Label to Catalog or Category'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/G32685'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:57.991050+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/G32685

# Assigning Label to Catalog or Category

To assign a label to a catalog or category:
-
Navigate to the catalog or the category level at which you want to work.
Select the intended management context from the context selection box, then select Catalogs | Catalogs. Then click the catalog and category names until you reach the intended category level.

-
Click the icon in the row of the catalog or category you intend to edit.
-
Change to the Labels tab.
This lists the currently assigned labels.

-
Click New to define a new label assignment.
This displays the available labels.

-
Select a label from the list to assign an existing label, or provide name and ID to create a new label.
-
Click OK.
This assigns the label to the current catalog or category.


## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.