---
id: 'cfa8f3f83347b07633beea00767cb7a9'
title: 'Support Article'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/311K07'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:36:29.678528+00:00'
---
The cluster-wide webserver URL in the *appserver.properties* file under *<server>/share/system/config/cluster* must be overwritten during deployment with domain-specific values according to the environment in which the ICM server is set up.

This support article provides guidance on how to specify environment and domain specific webserver URLs directly in the project.

There are two steps to perform when setting an environment- and domain-specific webserver URL.

To begin, create an environment-specific properties file for each domain of the project. This is done in a project cartridge under *<cartridge>/staticfiles/share/system/config/domains/<domain>*.

Follow the file name schema *<environment>_<staging.system.type>_<yourchoice>.properties. *

Please refer to the sample properties files below, which were created for the relevant environments using the default settings and an identifier called `appserver`

.

The files should be named according to the corresponding environment they are intended for. Please verify if the assembly *build.gradle* file defines specific environments. The default environments are development, test and production. If a staging environment is set up, the *staging.system.type* must be `editing`

or `live`

.

The `development`

environment can be used for local DEV systems.

|
|
|---|---|
development_editing_appserver.properties | This properties file contains settings for the DEV Edit environment only. |
development_live_appserver.properties | This properties file contains settings for the DEV Live environment only. |
development_appserver.properties | This properties file contains settings for staging type independent DEV environments. |

By default, the environment for INT or UAT systems is set to `test`

.

|
|
|---|---|
test_editing_appserver.properties | This properties file contains settings for the INT/UAT Edit environment only. |
test_live_appserver.properties | This properties file contains settings for the INT/UAT Live environment only. |
test_appserver.properties | This properties file contains settings for staging type independent INT/UAT environments. |

By default, the environment for PROD systems is set to `production`

.

|
|
|---|---|
production_editing_appserver.properties | This properties file contains settings for the PROD Edit environment only. |
production_live_appserver.properties | This properties file contains settings for the PROD Live environment only. |
production_appserver.properties | This properties file contains settings for the staging type independent PROD environment. |

The webserver URL and other relevant properties can then be configured in each of the created files based on the specific environment.

Please refer to the *test_editing_appserver.properties* file for an example.

[...] intershop.WebServerURL=http://mysite-int-edit.com:80 intershop.WebServerSecureURL=https://mysite-int-edit.com:443 [...]

Additional properties can be added to the project’s property files using this method.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.