---
id: 'd00886c12dc44fa7ad3c092bb828c1d7'
title: 'Reference'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/31A229'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:14.826796+00:00'
---
This API specification is available for download as an Open API 3.0 YAML file:

# References

The following page lists available REST APIs for ICM 12 and their version dependencies:

# API Specification

openapi: 3.0.1 info: title: Product and Catalog Management description: "The _Product and Catalog Management REST API_ contains resources that\ \ allow to execute all major actions required for managing products and catalogs\ \ in Intershop Commerce Management.\n\nThe _Product and Catalog Management REST\ \ API_ is subject to change and potential breaking updates in future releases.\n\ \nFor more information on product information management, refer to [Overview -\ \ Product Information Management](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2S7842).\n\ Please contact our Intershop experts at [Support - Intershop Communications](https://www.intershop.com/en/support)\ \ if you have any questions about this API.\n\n## Catalog and Category Browsing\n\ \nThe path segment ```categories/{categoryId}``` must be repeated multiple times\ \ to navigate through the category tree of a catalog or to access a specific sub-category\ \ for viewing or editing. For example:\n```catalogs/computers/categories/notebooks-and-pcs/categories/notebooks/categories/accessories```.\n\ This applies to all available operations (`GET`, `PUT`, `PATCH`, `DELETE`). \n\ \nThis also applies to all sub-resources. For example:\n\n- ```catalogs/computers/categories/notebooks-and-pcs/categories/notebooks/explicitlyAssignedProducts```\ \ returns all explicitly assigned products of the sub-category _notebooks_.\n\ - ```catalogs/computers/categories/notebooks-and-pcs/categories/notebooks/categories/accessories/explicitlyAssignedProducts```\ \ returns all explicitly assigned products of the sub-category _accessories_.\n\ \n## API Versioning & Accept Header\n\nMedia type based versioning is used to\ \ distinguish between different API versions. For requests to the _PIM Management\ \ REST API 1.x_, the REST client must set the following HTTP ```Accept``` header:\n\ \n```Accept: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json```\n\n## Changelog\n\ - - -\n### Version 1.4.2\n* Added general information regarding catalog and category\ \ browsing\n### Version 1.4.1\n* Improved descriptions\n* Reworked example values\ \ for parameters\n### Version 1.4.0\n* Added functionality and resource object\ \ definitions for creating dynamic product assignment configurations for catalogs\n\ ### Version 1.3.0\n* Successfully using the DELETE method for the following endpoints\ \ will now return HTTP code 204 instead of 200:\n * _/catalogs/{catalogId}/categories/{categoryId}_\n\ \ * _/catalogs/{catalogId}/categories/{categoryId}/explicitlyAssignedProducts/{productId}_\n\ \ * _/catalogs/{catalogId}/explicitlyAssignedProducts/{productId}_\n * _/products/{productId}_\n\ \ * _/products/{productId}/linkedProducts/{productLinkType}/{targetProductId}_\n\ * Added new attributes `listPrices` and `costPrices` to `ProductAspectPricingRO_v1`\n\ * Previously, PUT returned only HTTP code 201 for successful creation of products,\ \ catalogs and categories. Now, if the entity already exists, it is replaced and\ \ HTTP code 200 is returned.\n### Version 1.2.0\n* Added this changelog\n* Added\ \ REST endpoints to handle catalog categories\n* Added REST endpoints for product\ \ links\n* Added new attribute `attachments` to `ProductAspectContentRO_v1`\n\ * PUT now re-creates products, catalogs and categories\n### Version 1.1.0\n* Added\ \ REST endpoints to handle explicit product assignments to categories\n* Added\ \ new attribute `images` to `ProductAspectContentRO_v1`\n### Version 1.0.0\n*\ \ Initial version of the Product and Catalog Management REST API" contact: name: Intershop Communications AG url: http://intershop.com version: 1.4.2-beta servers: - url: "/INTERSHOP/rest/{serverGroup}/{siteName}/{appUrl}" description: Intershop ICM Server variables: serverGroup: description: The server group enum: - BOS - JOB - WFS default: WFS siteName: description: The site name default: inSPIRED-Site appUrl: description: The application URL identifier enum: - inTRONICS - inTRONICS-rest - inTRONICS_Business - inTRONICS_Business-rest - ShoppingLive - ShoppingLive-b2c-responsive default: inTRONICS-rest paths: /catalogs: get: tags: - Catalog summary: __BETA__ | Returns the list of catalogs description: This operation returns a list of all top-level categories (catalogs). The sorting is as defined in Intershop Commerce Management (manual or dynamic sorting). operationId: getCatalogList_V1 parameters: - name: offset in: query description: "An offset for a specific set of results. Allows to offset the\ \ result list by the specified number of items. \nCan be combined\ \ with `limit`. Must be equal to or greater than 0." schema: type: integer description: "An offset for a specific set of results. Allows to offset\ \ the result list by the specified number of items. \nCan be combined\ \ with `limit`. Must be equal to or greater than 0." format: int32 example: 2 default: 0 example: "2" - name: limit in: query description: "Number of items to be returned. The default maximum number of\ \ items is 200. Requesting more items is not possible. \nMust be greater\ \ than 0." schema: type: integer description: "Number of items to be returned. The default maximum number\ \ of items is 200. Requesting more items is not possible. \nMust be greater\ \ than 0." format: int32 example: 2 default: 20 example: "2" responses: "200": description: OK - The list of catalogs is returned. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CatalogListRESTResponse_v1" "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. "404": description: Not found - A catalog with the given ID could not be found. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: "public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.CatalogListResource.getCatalogList(java.lang.Integer,java.lang.Integer)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.CatalogListResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" /catalogs/{catalogId}: get: tags: - Catalog summary: __BETA__ | Returns the catalog with the given ID description: This operation returns the catalog with the given ID. operationId: getCatalog_V1 parameters: - name: catalogId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. example: Computers example: Computers responses: "200": description: OK - The catalog with the given ID is returned. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CatalogRESTResponse_v1" "404": description: Not found - A catalog with the given ID could not be found. "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.CatalogItemResource.getCatalog() x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.CatalogItemResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" put: tags: - Catalog summary: __BETA__ | Creates the catalog with the given ID description: |- This operation creates or replaces the catalog with the given ID and all the provided information. Missing information can be added later via PATCH. operationId: createCatalog_V1 parameters: - name: catalogId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. example: Computers example: Computers requestBody: description: The object containing the data to create the catalog with the given ID content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CatalogDataRO_v1" required: true responses: "200": description: OK - The catalog was successfully re-created. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CatalogRESTResponse_v1" "201": description: Created - The catalog was successfully created. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CatalogRESTResponse_v1" "400": description: Bad Request - The JSON body is missing. "409": description: Conflict - A catalog with the given ID already exists. "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. "422": description: Unprocessable - The catalog is not correctly specified. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.CatalogItemResource.createCatalog(java.lang.String) x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.CatalogItemResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" patch: tags: - Catalog summary: __BETA__ | Partially updates the catalog with the given ID description: This operation updates the catalog with all the provided information. operationId: updateCatalog_V1 parameters: - name: catalogId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. example: Computers example: Computers requestBody: description: The object containing the data to update the catalog with the given ID content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CatalogPatchRO" required: true responses: "200": description: OK - The catalog was successfully updated. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CatalogRESTResponse_v1" "400": description: Bad Request - The JSON body is missing. "404": description: Not found - A catalog with the given ID could not be found. "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. "422": description: Unprocessable - The catalog is not correctly specified. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.CatalogItemResource.updateCatalog(java.lang.String) x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.CatalogItemResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" /catalogs/{catalogId}/categories: get: tags: - Catalog summary: __BETA__ | Returns the list of catalog categories description: "This operation returns a list of catalog categories (subcategories,\ \ level 1)." operationId: getCategoryList_V1 parameters: - name: offset in: query description: "An offset for a specific result set. Allows to offset the result\ \ list by the specified number of items. \nMay be combined with `limit`." schema: type: integer description: "An offset for a specific result set. Allows to offset the\ \ result list by the specified number of items. \nMay be combined\ \ with `limit`." format: int32 example: 2 default: 0 example: "2" - name: limit in: query description: Number of items to be returned. The default maximum number of items is 200. Requesting more items is not possible. schema: type: integer description: Number of items to be returned. The default maximum number of items is 200. Requesting more items is not possible. format: int32 example: 2 default: 20 example: "2" - name: catalogId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. example: Computers example: Computers responses: "200": description: OK - The list of catalog categories is returned. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CategoryListRESTResponse_v1" "404": description: Not found - A catalog category or parent catalog category with the given ID could not be found. "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: "public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.CategoryListResource.getCategoryList(java.lang.Integer,java.lang.Integer)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.CategoryListResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" /catalogs/{catalogId}/categories/{categoryId}: get: tags: - Catalog summary: __BETA__ | Returns the catalog category with the given ID description: This operation returns the catalog category with the given ID. operationId: getCategory_V1 parameters: - name: categoryId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single catalog category item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single catalog category item. This is case-sensitive. example: Laptops example: Laptops - name: catalogId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. example: Computers example: Computers responses: "200": description: OK - The catalog category with the given ID is returned. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CategoryRESTResponse_v1" "404": description: Not found - A catalog category or a parent catalog category with the given ID could not be found. "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.CategoryItemResource.getCategory() x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.CategoryItemResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" put: tags: - Catalog summary: __BETA__ | Creates or replaces the category with the given ID description: |- This operation creates or replaces the category with the given ID and all the provided information. Missing information can be added later via PATCH. operationId: createCategory_V1 parameters: - name: categoryId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single catalog category item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single catalog category item. This is case-sensitive. example: Laptops example: Laptops - name: catalogId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. example: Computers example: Computers requestBody: description: The object containing the data with the given ID to create or replace a category content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CategoryDataRO_v1" required: true responses: "200": description: OK - The category was successfully re-created. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CategoryRESTResponse_v1" "201": description: Created - The category was successfully created. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CategoryRESTResponse_v1" "400": description: Bad Request - The JSON body is missing or incorrect. "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. "404": description: Not found - A catalog or a parent catalog category in the path could not be found. "409": description: Conflict - The requested catalog category already exists at another path of the catalog. "422": description: Unprocessable - The category is not correctly specified. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.CategoryItemResource.createCategory(java.lang.String) x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.CategoryItemResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" delete: tags: - Catalog summary: __BETA__ | Deletes the category with the given ID description: "This operation deletes the category with the given ID along with\ \ all its nested subcategories. All products, category links and product\ \ links which are mapped to and from this category and its subcategories will\ \ also be unassigned." operationId: deleteCategory_V1 parameters: - name: categoryId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single catalog category item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single catalog category item. This is case-sensitive. example: Laptops example: Laptops - name: catalogId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. example: Computers example: Computers responses: "204": description: No Content - The category has been deleted. "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. "404": description: Not found - A category with the given ID could not be found. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.CategoryItemResource.deleteCategory() x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.CategoryItemResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" patch: tags: - Catalog summary: __BETA__ | Partially updates the category with the given ID description: This operation updates the category with all the provided information. operationId: updateCategory_V1 parameters: - name: categoryId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single catalog category item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single catalog category item. This is case-sensitive. example: Laptops example: Laptops - name: catalogId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. example: Computers example: Computers requestBody: description: The object containing the data to create the category with the given ID content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CategoryPatchRO" responses: "200": description: OK - The category was successfully updated. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CategoryRESTResponse_v1" "400": description: Bad Request - The JSON body is missing or incorrect. "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. "404": description: Not found - A category with the given ID could not be found. "422": description: Unprocessable - The category is not correctly specified. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.CategoryItemResource.updateCategory(java.lang.String) x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.CategoryItemResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" /catalogs/{catalogId}/categories/{categoryId}/explicitlyAssignedProducts: get: tags: - Catalog summary: __BETA__ | Returns the list of explicitly assigned products of a catalog category description: This operation returns the list of explicitly assigned products of a catalog category. The sorting is as defined in Intershop Commerce Management (manual or automatic sorting). operationId: getExplicitlyAssignedProductList_V1 parameters: - name: offset in: query description: "An offset for a specific result set. Allows to offset the result\ \ list by the specified number of items. \nMay be combined with `limit`." schema: type: integer description: "An offset for a specific result set. Allows to offset the\ \ result list by the specified number of items. \nMay be combined\ \ with `limit`." format: int32 example: 2 default: 0 example: "2" - name: limit in: query description: Number of items to be returned. The default maximum number of items is 200. Requesting more items is not possible. schema: type: integer description: Number of items to be returned. The default maximum number of items is 200. Requesting more items is not possible. format: int32 example: 2 default: 20 example: "2" - name: categoryId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single catalog category item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single catalog category item. This is case-sensitive. example: Laptops example: Laptops - name: catalogId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. example: Computers example: Computers responses: "200": description: OK - The list of explicitly assigned products is returned. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRefListRESTResponse_v1" "404": description: Not found - A catalog category or parent catalog category with the given ID could not be found. "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: "public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.ExplicitlyAssignedProductListResource.getExplicitlyAssignedProductList(java.lang.Integer,java.lang.Integer)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.ExplicitlyAssignedProductListResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" put: tags: - Catalog summary: __BETA__ | Sets the list of explicitly assigned products of a catalog category description: This operation sets the list of explicitly assigned products of a catalog category. The sorting is as defined in Intershop Commerce Management (manual or automatic sorting). New product assignments in this category will always use automatic sorting. operationId: setExplicitlyAssignedProductList_V1 parameters: - name: offset in: query description: "An offset for a specific result set. Allows to offset the result\ \ list by the specified number of items. \nMay be combined with `limit`." schema: type: integer description: "An offset for a specific result set. Allows to offset the\ \ result list by the specified number of items. \nMay be combined\ \ with `limit`." format: int32 example: 2 default: 0 example: "2" - name: limit in: query description: Number of items to be returned. The default maximum number of items is 200. Requesting more items is not possible. schema: type: integer description: Number of items to be returned. The default maximum number of items is 200. Requesting more items is not possible. format: int32 example: 2 default: 20 example: "2" - name: categoryId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single catalog category item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single catalog category item. This is case-sensitive. example: Laptops example: Laptops - name: catalogId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. example: Computers example: Computers requestBody: description: The object containing the data to assign the products content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: type: array items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRefRO_v1" required: true responses: "200": description: OK - The list of explicitly assigned products was successfully re-created. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRefListRESTResponse_v1" "201": description: Created - The list of explicitly assigned products was successfully created. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRefListRESTResponse_v1" "400": description: Bad Request - The JSON body is missing. "404": description: Not found - A catalog category or parent catalog category with the given ID could not be found. "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. "422": description: Unprocessable - The product reference list is not correctly specified. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: "public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.ExplicitlyAssignedProductListResource.setExplicitlyAssignedProductList(java.util.List,java.lang.Integer,java.lang.Integer)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.ExplicitlyAssignedProductListResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" /catalogs/{catalogId}/categories/{categoryId}/explicitlyAssignedProducts/appendAll: post: tags: - Catalog summary: __BETA__ | Appends the list of explicitly assigned products of a catalog category description: This operation appends the list of explicitly assigned products of a catalog category. New product assignments in this category will always use automatic sorting. operationId: appendExplicitlyAssignedProducts_V1 parameters: - name: categoryId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single catalog category item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single catalog category item. This is case-sensitive. example: Laptops example: Laptops - name: catalogId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. example: Computers example: Computers requestBody: description: The object that contains the data to append the product references to the explicitly assigned product list content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: type: array items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRefRO_v1" required: true responses: "200": description: OK - The list of explicitly assigned products is appended. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRefListRESTResponse_v1" "207": description: "Multi Status - The list of explicitly assigned products is\ \ appended, some items could not be processed." content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRefListRESTResponse_v1" "400": description: Bad Request - The JSON body is missing. "404": description: Not found - A catalog category or parent catalog category with the given ID could not be found. "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.ExplicitlyAssignedProductListAppendAllResource.appendExplicitlyAssignedProducts(java.util.List) x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.ExplicitlyAssignedProductListAppendAllResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" /catalogs/{catalogId}/categories/{categoryId}/explicitlyAssignedProducts/{productId}: delete: tags: - Catalog summary: __BETA__ | Deletes an explicit product assignment description: This operation deletes an explicit product assignment with the given ID. operationId: deleteExplicitlyProductAssignment_V1 parameters: - name: productId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single product item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single product item. This is case-sensitive. example: SKU-10001 example: SKU-10001 - name: categoryId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single catalog category item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single catalog category item. This is case-sensitive. example: Laptops example: Laptops - name: catalogId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. example: Computers example: Computers responses: "204": description: No Content - The product assignment has been deleted. "404": description: "Not found - A catalog category, parent catalog category, the\ \ product or the product assignment with the given ID could not be found." "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.ExplicitlyAssignedProductItemResource.deleteExplicitlyProductAssignment() x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.ExplicitlyAssignedProductItemResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" /catalogs/{catalogId}/explicitlyAssignedProducts: get: tags: - Catalog summary: __BETA__ | Returns the list of explicitly assigned products of a catalog category description: This operation returns the list of explicitly assigned products of a catalog category. The sorting is as defined in Intershop Commerce Management (manual or automatic sorting). operationId: getExplicitlyAssignedProductList_V1_1 parameters: - name: offset in: query description: "An offset for a specific result set. Allows to offset the result\ \ list by the specified number of items. \nMay be combined with `limit`." schema: type: integer description: "An offset for a specific result set. Allows to offset the\ \ result list by the specified number of items. \nMay be combined\ \ with `limit`." format: int32 example: 2 default: 0 example: "2" - name: limit in: query description: Number of items to be returned. The default maximum number of items is 200. Requesting more items is not possible. schema: type: integer description: Number of items to be returned. The default maximum number of items is 200. Requesting more items is not possible. format: int32 example: 2 default: 20 example: "2" - name: catalogId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. example: Computers example: Computers responses: "200": description: OK - The list of explicitly assigned products is returned. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRefListRESTResponse_v1" "404": description: Not found - A catalog category or parent catalog category with the given ID could not be found. "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: "public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.ExplicitlyAssignedProductListResource.getExplicitlyAssignedProductList(java.lang.Integer,java.lang.Integer)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.ExplicitlyAssignedProductListResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" put: tags: - Catalog summary: __BETA__ | Sets the list of explicitly assigned products of a catalog category description: This operation sets the list of explicitly assigned products of a catalog category. The sorting is as defined in Intershop Commerce Management (manual or automatic sorting). New product assignments in this category will always use automatic sorting. operationId: setExplicitlyAssignedProductList_V1_1 parameters: - name: offset in: query description: "An offset for a specific result set. Allows to offset the result\ \ list by the specified number of items. \nMay be combined with `limit`." schema: type: integer description: "An offset for a specific result set. Allows to offset the\ \ result list by the specified number of items. \nMay be combined\ \ with `limit`." format: int32 example: 2 default: 0 example: "2" - name: limit in: query description: Number of items to be returned. The default maximum number of items is 200. Requesting more items is not possible. schema: type: integer description: Number of items to be returned. The default maximum number of items is 200. Requesting more items is not possible. format: int32 example: 2 default: 20 example: "2" - name: catalogId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. example: Computers example: Computers requestBody: description: The object containing the data to assign the products content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: type: array items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRefRO_v1" required: true responses: "200": description: OK - The list of explicitly assigned products was successfully re-created. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRefListRESTResponse_v1" "201": description: Created - The list of explicitly assigned products was successfully created. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRefListRESTResponse_v1" "400": description: Bad Request - The JSON body is missing. "404": description: Not found - A catalog category or parent catalog category with the given ID could not be found. "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. "422": description: Unprocessable - The product reference list is not correctly specified. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: "public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.ExplicitlyAssignedProductListResource.setExplicitlyAssignedProductList(java.util.List,java.lang.Integer,java.lang.Integer)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.ExplicitlyAssignedProductListResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" /catalogs/{catalogId}/explicitlyAssignedProducts/appendAll: post: tags: - Catalog summary: __BETA__ | Appends the list of explicitly assigned products of a catalog category description: This operation appends the list of explicitly assigned products of a catalog category. New product assignments in this category will always use automatic sorting. operationId: appendExplicitlyAssignedProducts_V1_1 parameters: - name: catalogId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. example: Computers example: Computers requestBody: description: The object that contains the data to append the product references to the explicitly assigned product list content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: type: array items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRefRO_v1" required: true responses: "200": description: OK - The list of explicitly assigned products is appended. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRefListRESTResponse_v1" "207": description: "Multi Status - The list of explicitly assigned products is\ \ appended, some items could not be processed." content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRefListRESTResponse_v1" "400": description: Bad Request - The JSON body is missing. "404": description: Not found - A catalog category or parent catalog category with the given ID could not be found. "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.ExplicitlyAssignedProductListAppendAllResource.appendExplicitlyAssignedProducts(java.util.List) x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.ExplicitlyAssignedProductListAppendAllResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" /catalogs/{catalogId}/explicitlyAssignedProducts/{productId}: delete: tags: - Catalog summary: __BETA__ | Deletes an explicit product assignment description: This operation deletes an explicit product assignment with the given ID. operationId: deleteExplicitlyProductAssignment_V1_1 parameters: - name: productId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single product item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single product item. This is case-sensitive. example: SKU-10001 example: SKU-10001 - name: catalogId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single catalog item. This is case-sensitive. example: Computers example: Computers responses: "204": description: No Content - The product assignment has been deleted. "404": description: "Not found - A catalog category, parent catalog category, the\ \ product or the product assignment with the given ID could not be found." "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.ExplicitlyAssignedProductItemResource.deleteExplicitlyProductAssignment() x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.catalog.ExplicitlyAssignedProductItemResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" /products: get: tags: - Product summary: __BETA__ | Returns the list of products description: This operation returns a list of products for the given parameters. operationId: getProductList_V1 parameters: - name: offset in: query description: "An offset for a specific set of results. Allows to offset the\ \ result list by the specified number of items. \nCan be combined\ \ with `limit`." schema: type: integer description: "An offset for a specific set of results. Allows to offset\ \ the result list by the specified number of items. \nCan be combined\ \ with `limit`." format: int32 example: 2 default: 0 example: "2" - name: limit in: query description: Number of items to be returned. The default maximum number of items is 200. Requesting more items is not possible. The maximum number of items per request can be configured. schema: type: integer description: Number of items to be returned. The default maximum number of items is 200. Requesting more items is not possible. The maximum number of items per request can be configured. format: int32 example: 2 default: 20 example: "2" responses: "200": description: OK - The list of products is returned. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductListRESTResponse_v1" "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: "public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.product.ProductListResource.getProductList(java.lang.Integer,java.lang.Integer)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.product.ProductListResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" /products/{productId}: get: tags: - Product summary: __BETA__ | Returns the product with the given ID description: This operation returns the product with the given ID. operationId: getProduct_V1 parameters: - name: productId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single product item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single product item. This is case-sensitive. example: SKU-10001 example: SKU-10001 responses: "200": description: OK - The product with the given ID is returned. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRESTResponse_v1" "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. "404": description: Not found - A product with the given ID could not be found. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.product.ProductItemResource.getProduct() x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.product.ProductItemResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" put: tags: - Product summary: __BETA__ | Creates the product with the given ID description: |- This operation creates or replaces the product with the given ID and all the provided information. Missing information can be added later via PATCH. Be aware that not all combinations of product types work. See the table below for valid combinations: | is a ... / can also be (another) ... | Variation Master | Retail Set (Master) | Variation Product (Variant) | Part of Retail Set | |:------------------------------------------|:----------------:|:-------------------:|:---------------------------:|:------------------:| | Variation Master | no | no | no | no | | Retail Set (Master) | no | no | yes | no | | Variation Product (Variant) | no | yes | no | yes | | Part of Retail Set | no | no | yes | yes | operationId: createProduct_V1 parameters: - name: productId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single product item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single product item. This is case-sensitive. example: SKU-10001 example: SKU-10001 requestBody: description: The object containing the data to create the product with the given ID content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductDataRO_v1" required: true responses: "200": description: OK - The product was successfully re-created. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRESTResponse_v1" "201": description: Created - The product was successfully created. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRESTResponse_v1" "400": description: Bad Request - The JSON body is missing. "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. "409": description: Conflict - The product variation or retail set information conflicts with other products. "422": description: Unprocessable - The product is not correctly specified. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.product.ProductItemResource.createProduct(java.lang.String) x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.product.ProductItemResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" delete: tags: - Product summary: __BETA__ | Deletes the product with the given ID description: This operation deletes the product with the given ID. operationId: deleteProduct_V1 parameters: - name: productId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single product item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single product item. This is case-sensitive. example: SKU-10001 example: SKU-10001 responses: "204": description: No Content - The product has been deleted. "404": description: Not found - A product with the given ID could not be found. "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.product.ProductItemResource.deleteProduct() x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.product.ProductItemResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" patch: tags: - Product summary: __BETA__ | Partially updates the product with the given ID description: |- This operation updates the product with all the provided information. Be aware that not all combinations of product types work. See the table below for valid combinations: | is a ... / can also be (another) ... | Variation Master | Retail Set (Master) | Variation Product (Variant) | Part of Retail Set | |:------------------------------------------|:----------------:|:-------------------:|:---------------------------:|:------------------:| | Variation Master | no | no | no | no | | Retail Set (Master) | no | no | yes | no | | Variation Product (Variant) | no | yes | no | yes | | Part of Retail Set | no | no | yes | yes | operationId: updateProduct_V1 parameters: - name: productId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single product item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single product item. This is case-sensitive. example: SKU-10001 example: SKU-10001 requestBody: description: The object containing the data to create the product with the given ID content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductPatchRO" responses: "200": description: OK - The product was successfully updated. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRESTResponse_v1" "400": description: Bad Request - The JSON body is missing. "404": description: Not found - A product with the given ID could not be found. "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. "422": description: Unprocessable - The product is not correctly specified. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.product.ProductItemResource.updateProduct(java.lang.String) x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.product.ProductItemResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" /products/{productId}/linkedProducts/{productLinkType}: get: tags: - Product summary: __BETA__ | Returns the list of linked products of a product for a product link type description: This operation returns the list of linked products of a product for a product link type. The sorting is as defined in Intershop Commerce Management (manual or automatic sorting). operationId: getProductLinksByLinkType_V1 parameters: - name: offset in: query description: "An offset for a specific result set. Allows to offset the result\ \ list by the specified number of items. \nMay be combined with `limit`." schema: type: integer description: "An offset for a specific result set. Allows to offset the\ \ result list by the specified number of items. \nMay be combined\ \ with `limit`." format: int32 example: 2 default: 0 example: "2" - name: limit in: query description: Number of items to be returned. The default maximum number of items is 200. Requesting more items is not possible. schema: type: integer description: Number of items to be returned. The default maximum number of items is 200. Requesting more items is not possible. format: int32 example: 2 default: 20 example: "2" - name: productLinkType in: path description: "The product link type. This is case-sensitive and the accepted\ \ values are ES_CrossSelling, ES_Replacement, ES_UpSelling, ES_Accessory,\ \ ES_FollowUp, ES_DifferentOrderUnit, ES_SpareParts, ES_Other, ES_Warranty,\ \ ES_GiftWrap, ES_GiftMessage." required: true schema: type: string description: "The product link type. This is case-sensitive and the accepted\ \ values are ES_CrossSelling, ES_Replacement, ES_UpSelling, ES_Accessory,\ \ ES_FollowUp, ES_DifferentOrderUnit, ES_SpareParts, ES_Other, ES_Warranty,\ \ ES_GiftWrap, ES_GiftMessage." example: ES_CrossSelling example: ES_CrossSelling - name: productId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single product item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single product item. This is case-sensitive. example: SKU-10001 example: SKU-10001 responses: "200": description: OK - The list of linked products is returned. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRefListRESTResponse_v1" "404": description: Not found - A product or product link type could not be found. "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: "public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.product.ProductLinkTypeListResource.getProductLinkedProductListByProductLinkType(java.lang.Integer,java.lang.Integer)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.product.ProductLinkTypeListResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" put: tags: - Product summary: '__BETA__ | Sets the list of linked products of a product for a product link type ' description: This operation creates or re-creates linked products for a product link type. operationId: createProductLinksByLinkType_V1 parameters: - name: productLinkType in: path description: "The product link type. This is case-sensitive and the accepted\ \ values are ES_CrossSelling, ES_Replacement, ES_UpSelling, ES_Accessory,\ \ ES_FollowUp, ES_DifferentOrderUnit, ES_SpareParts, ES_Other, ES_Warranty,\ \ ES_GiftWrap, ES_GiftMessage." required: true schema: type: string description: "The product link type. This is case-sensitive and the accepted\ \ values are ES_CrossSelling, ES_Replacement, ES_UpSelling, ES_Accessory,\ \ ES_FollowUp, ES_DifferentOrderUnit, ES_SpareParts, ES_Other, ES_Warranty,\ \ ES_GiftWrap, ES_GiftMessage." example: ES_CrossSelling example: ES_CrossSelling - name: productId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single product item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single product item. This is case-sensitive. example: SKU-10001 example: SKU-10001 requestBody: description: The product links content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: type: array items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRefRO_v1" required: true responses: "200": description: OK - The list of product links was successfully re-created. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRefListRESTResponse_v1" "201": description: Created - The list of product links was successfully created. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRefListRESTResponse_v1" "404": description: Not found - A product or product link type could not be found. "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.product.ProductLinkTypeListResource.createProductLinksByType(java.util.List) x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.product.ProductLinkTypeListResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" /products/{productId}/linkedProducts/{productLinkType}/appendAll: post: tags: - Product summary: __BETA__ | Appends product links to a product description: This operation appends the list of product links of a product for a given type. New product links will always use automatic sorting. operationId: appendProductsLinks_V1 parameters: - name: productLinkType in: path description: "The product link type. This is case-sensitive and the accepted\ \ values are ES_CrossSelling, ES_Replacement, ES_UpSelling, ES_Accessory,\ \ ES_FollowUp, ES_DifferentOrderUnit, ES_SpareParts, ES_Other, ES_Warranty,\ \ ES_GiftWrap, ES_GiftMessage." required: true schema: type: string description: "The product link type. This is case-sensitive and the accepted\ \ values are ES_CrossSelling, ES_Replacement, ES_UpSelling, ES_Accessory,\ \ ES_FollowUp, ES_DifferentOrderUnit, ES_SpareParts, ES_Other, ES_Warranty,\ \ ES_GiftWrap, ES_GiftMessage." example: ES_CrossSelling example: ES_CrossSelling - name: productId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single product item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single product item. This is case-sensitive. example: SKU-10001 example: SKU-10001 requestBody: description: The object that contains the data to append the product links to the product link list content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: type: array items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRefRO_v1" required: true responses: "200": description: OK - The list of product links is appended. content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRefListRESTResponse_v1" "207": description: "Multi Status - The list of product links is appended, some\ \ items could not be processed." content: application/vnd.intershop.admin.pim.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRefListRESTResponse_v1" "400": description: Bad Request - The JSON body is missing. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "404": description: Not found - A linked product or product link type could not be found.. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.product.ProductLinkTypeListAppendAllResource.appendProductsLinks(java.util.List) x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.product.ProductLinkTypeListAppendAllResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" /products/{productId}/linkedProducts/{productLinkType}/{targetProductId}: delete: tags: - Product summary: __BETA__ | Deletes the product link for a given type between two products description: This operation deletes a product link for a product link type. operationId: deleteProductLinksByLinkType_V1 parameters: - name: targetProductId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single product item which will be unlinked from the product. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single product item which will be unlinked from the product. This is case-sensitive. example: SKU-10002 example: SKU-10002 - name: productLinkType in: path description: "The product link type. This is case-sensitive and the accepted\ \ values are ES_CrossSelling, ES_Replacement, ES_UpSelling, ES_Accessory,\ \ ES_FollowUp, ES_DifferentOrderUnit, ES_SpareParts, ES_Other, ES_Warranty,\ \ ES_GiftWrap, ES_GiftMessage." required: true schema: type: string description: "The product link type. This is case-sensitive and the accepted\ \ values are ES_CrossSelling, ES_Replacement, ES_UpSelling, ES_Accessory,\ \ ES_FollowUp, ES_DifferentOrderUnit, ES_SpareParts, ES_Other, ES_Warranty,\ \ ES_GiftWrap, ES_GiftMessage." example: ES_CrossSelling example: ES_CrossSelling - name: productId in: path description: The ID to resolve a single product item. This is case-sensitive. required: true schema: type: string description: The ID to resolve a single product item. This is case-sensitive. example: SKU-10001 example: SKU-10001 responses: "204": description: No Content - The product link has been deleted. "404": description: Not found - A product or product link type could not be found. "401": description: Unauthorized - The user could not be authenticated. "403": description: Forbidden - The user is not allowed to access this resource. security: - bearerAuth: [] x-beta: "true" x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.product.ProductLinkTypeItemResource.deleteProductLink() x-origin-class: com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.product.ProductLinkTypeItemResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[]" components: schemas: AspectDynamicAssignmentConfigRO_v1: title: AspectDynamicAssignmentConfigRO_v1 type: object properties: contextCategoryId: type: string description: The context category ID specifying where to dynamically select products from rangeConditions: type: array description: The range conditions products should be selected by items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/RangeConditionRO_v1" sortings: type: array description: The sorting statements for sorting the dynamically assigned products items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/SortingRO_v1" valueConditions: type: array description: The value conditions products should be selected by items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ValueConditionRO_v1" weights: type: array description: The weight statements for applying specific sorting weights to specific product attributes items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/WeightRO_v1" description: The configuration for dynamic product assignment Attribute_v1: title: Attribute_v1 required: - name - type type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of the (custom) attribute example: CustomAttributeName value: type: object description: The value of the (custom) attribute with the defined type type: type: string description: The type of the (custom) attribute enum: - Integer - Double - String - IntegerList - DoubleList - StringList - Long - Boolean - Date - Decimal - Money - Quantity - LongList - BooleanList - DateList - DecimalList - LocalizedInteger - LocalizedDouble - LocalizedString - LocalizedIntegerList - LocalizedDoubleList - LocalizedStringList - LocalizedLong - LocalizedBoolean - LocalizedDate - LocalizedDecimal - LocalizedMoney - LocalizedQuantity - LocalizedLongList - LocalizedBooleanList - LocalizedDateList - LocalizedDecimalList discriminator: propertyName: type mapping: Integer: "#/components/schemas/IntegerAttribute_v1" Double: "#/components/schemas/DoubleAttribute_v1" String: "#/components/schemas/StringAttribute_v1" IntegerList: "#/components/schemas/IntegerListAttribute_v1" DoubleList: "#/components/schemas/DoubleListAttribute_v1" StringList: "#/components/schemas/StringListAttribute_v1" Long: "#/components/schemas/LongAttribute_v1" Boolean: "#/components/schemas/BooleanAttribute_v1" Date: "#/components/schemas/DateAttribute_v1" Decimal: "#/components/schemas/DecimalAttribute_v1" Money: "#/components/schemas/MoneyAttribute_v1" Quantity: "#/components/schemas/QuantityAttribute_v1" LongList: "#/components/schemas/LongListAttribute_v1" BooleanList: "#/components/schemas/BooleanListAttribute_v1" DateList: "#/components/schemas/DateListAttribute_v1" DecimalList: "#/components/schemas/DecimalListAttribute_v1" LocalizedInteger: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedIntegerAttribute_v1" LocalizedDouble: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedDoubleAttribute_v1" LocalizedString: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedStringAttribute_v1" LocalizedIntegerList: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedIntegerListAttribute_v1" LocalizedDoubleList: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedDoubleListAttribute_v1" LocalizedStringList: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedStringListAttribute_v1" LocalizedLong: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedLongAttribute_v1" LocalizedBoolean: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedBooleanAttribute_v1" LocalizedDate: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedDateAttribute_v1" LocalizedDecimal: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedDecimalAttribute_v1" LocalizedMoney: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedMoneyAttribute_v1" LocalizedQuantity: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedQuantityAttribute_v1" LocalizedLongList: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedLongListAttribute_v1" LocalizedBooleanList: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedBooleanListAttribute_v1" LocalizedDateList: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedDateListAttribute_v1" LocalizedDecimalList: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedDecimalListAttribute_v1" oneOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/IntegerAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/DoubleAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/StringAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/IntegerListAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/DoubleListAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/StringListAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LongAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/BooleanAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/DateAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/DecimalAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/QuantityAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LongListAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/BooleanListAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/DateListAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/DecimalListAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedIntegerAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedDoubleAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedStringAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedIntegerListAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedDoubleListAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedStringListAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedLongAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedBooleanAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedDateAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedDecimalAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedMoneyAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedQuantityAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedLongListAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedBooleanListAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedDateListAttribute_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedDecimalListAttribute_v1" BasicImageRefRO_v1: title: BasicImageRefRO_v1 type: object properties: imagePath: type: string description: "The image location (usually consists of file name, path parts\ \ or URL parts), example: L/3740178-1748.jpg" description: The category image BooleanAttribute_v1: title: BooleanAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: boolean description: The boolean value of the (custom) attribute example: true type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: Boolean)" example: Boolean BooleanListAttribute_v1: title: BooleanListAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The boolean list value of the (custom) attribute example: - true - false items: type: boolean type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: BooleanList)" example: BooleanList CatalogAspectContentRO_v1: title: CatalogAspectContentRO_v1 type: object properties: image: $ref: "#/components/schemas/BasicImageRefRO_v1" longDescription: type: array properties: empty: type: boolean first: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" last: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" name: type: array properties: empty: type: boolean first: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" last: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" description: The localized name of the catalog items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" shortDescription: type: array properties: empty: type: boolean first: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" last: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" description: The localized short description of the catalog items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" description: The content information about the catalog CatalogAspectVisibilityRO_v1: title: CatalogAspectVisibilityRO_v1 type: object properties: onlineStatusDefinition: type: string description: The online status definition of the catalog example: ONLINE enum: - ONLINE - OFFLINE showInMenu: type: boolean description: Determines whether the catalog is displayed in the menu example: true description: Visibility information about the catalog CatalogDataRO_v1: title: CatalogDataRO_v1 type: object properties: attributes: type: array description: The (custom) attributes of an object items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" content: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CatalogAspectContentRO_v1" dynamicAssignmentConfig: $ref: "#/components/schemas/AspectDynamicAssignmentConfigRO_v1" visibility: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CatalogAspectVisibilityRO_v1" description: The core data of the response object CatalogInfoRO_v1: title: CatalogInfoRO_v1 type: object properties: shared: type: boolean description: Determines whether the catalog is shared readOnly: true example: true type: type: string description: The type of the catalog readOnly: true example: STANDARD enum: - STANDARD - CLASSIFICATION description: The optional info of the response object readOnly: true CatalogRESTResponse_v1: title: CatalogRESTResponse_v1 type: object properties: id: type: string description: The identifier of the response object example: Computers data: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CatalogDataRO_v1" info: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CatalogInfoRO_v1" messages: type: array description: "A list of messages related to the request, such as value adjustments" readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" description: The core data of the response object DateAttribute_v1: title: DateAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: string description: The date of the (custom) attribute format: date-time type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: Date)" example: Date DateListAttribute_v1: title: DateListAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The date list of the (custom) attribute example: - 2026-12-31T22:59:00.000Z - 2026-12-31T22:58:00.000Z items: type: string format: date-time type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: DateList)" example: DateList DecimalAttribute_v1: title: DecimalAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: number description: The decimal value of (custom) the attribute example: 50 type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: Decimal)" example: Decimal DecimalListAttribute_v1: title: DecimalListAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The decimal list of the (custom) attribute example: - 50 - 100 items: type: number type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: DecimalList)" example: DecimalList DoubleAttribute_v1: title: DoubleAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: number description: The double value of the (custom) attribute format: double example: 1.0 type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: Double)" example: Double DoubleListAttribute_v1: title: DoubleListAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The double list value of the (custom) attribute example: - 1.0 - 2.0 items: type: number format: double type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: DoubleList)" example: DoubleList FeedbackCauseRO_v1: title: FeedbackCauseRO_v1 required: - code - message type: object properties: code: type: string description: A unique identifier for this particular occurrence of the problem (may be used for localization on client-side) example: product.name.required.error message: type: string description: A human readable message in the request's locale example: The product name must be specified. parameters: type: array description: A map of several parameters that are used to assemble the message items: type: object additionalProperties: type: object paths: type: array description: "A collection of JSON paths to the associated entities. Unless\ \ otherwise specified, this always refers to the request entity." example: - "\"$.name (position: 1)\"" externalDocs: url: https://github.com/json-path/JsonPath items: type: string description: A representation for the common feedback information FeedbackRO_v1: title: FeedbackRO_v1 required: - code - message type: object properties: causes: type: array description: A collection of errors/warnings/infos that caused the feedback items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackCauseRO_v1" code: type: string description: A unique identifier for this particular occurrence of the problem (may be used for localization on client-side) example: product.name.required.error message: type: string description: A human readable message in the request's locale example: The product name must be specified. parameters: type: array description: A map of several parameters that are used to assemble the message items: type: object additionalProperties: type: object paths: type: array description: "A collection of JSON paths to the associated entities. Unless\ \ otherwise specified, this always refers to the request entity." example: - "\"$.name (position: 1)\"" externalDocs: url: https://github.com/json-path/JsonPath items: type: string level: type: string description: The level of the feedback example: ERROR enum: - INFO - WARN - ERROR status: type: string description: The HTTP status code that is applicable to this problem example: "422" description: An error or piece of information related to the current request readOnly: true IntegerAttribute_v1: title: IntegerAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: integer description: The integer value of the (custom) attribute format: int32 example: 10 type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: Integer)" example: Integer IntegerListAttribute_v1: title: IntegerListAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The integer list value of the (custom) attribute example: - 10 - 20 items: type: integer format: int32 type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: IntegerList)" example: IntegerList LocalizedBooleanAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedBooleanAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The value of the localized boolean items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueBoolean" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedBoolean)" example: LocalizedBoolean LocalizedBooleanListAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedBooleanListAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The values of the localized boolean list items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueListBoolean" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedBooleanList)" example: LocalizedBooleanList LocalizedDateAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedDateAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The value of the localized date items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueDate" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedDate)" example: LocalizedDate LocalizedDateListAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedDateListAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The values of the localized date list items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueListDate" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedDateList)" example: LocalizedDateList LocalizedDecimalAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedDecimalAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The value of the localized decimal items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueBigDecimal" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedDecimal)" example: LocalizedDecimal LocalizedDecimalListAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedDecimalListAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The values of the localized decimal list items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueListBigDecimal" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedDecimalList)" example: LocalizedDecimalList LocalizedDoubleAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedDoubleAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The value of the localized double items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueDouble" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedDouble)" example: LocalizedDouble LocalizedDoubleListAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedDoubleListAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The values of the localized double list items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueListDouble" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedDoubleList)" example: LocalizedDoubleList LocalizedIntegerAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedIntegerAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The value of the localized integer items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueInteger" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedInteger)" example: LocalizedInteger LocalizedIntegerListAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedIntegerListAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The values of the localized integer list items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueListInteger" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedIntegerList)" example: LocalizedIntegerList LocalizedLongAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedLongAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The value of the localized long items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueLong" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedLong)" example: LocalizedLong LocalizedLongListAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedLongListAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The values of the localized long list items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueListLong" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedLongList)" example: LocalizedLongList LocalizedMoneyAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedMoneyAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The value of the localized money items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueMoneyRO_v1" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedMoney)" example: LocalizedMoney LocalizedQuantityAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedQuantityAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The value of the localized quantity items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueQuantityRO_v1" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedQuantity)" example: LocalizedQuantity LocalizedStringAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedStringAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The value of the localized string items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedString)" example: LocalizedString LocalizedStringListAttribute_v1: title: LocalizedStringListAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The values of the localized string list items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueListString" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LocalizedStringList)" example: LocalizedStringList LocalizedStringRO: title: LocalizedString type: array properties: empty: type: boolean first: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" last: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" LocalizedValueBigDecimal: title: LocalizedValueBigDecimal_v1 type: object properties: locale: type: string description: The locale of the data of type BigDecimal example: en_US value: type: number description: The value of the localized data of type BigDecimal example: 10 LocalizedValueBoolean: title: LocalizedValueBoolean_v1 type: object properties: locale: type: string description: The locale of the data of type boolean example: en_US value: type: boolean description: The value of the localized data of type boolean example: true LocalizedValueDate: title: LocalizedValueDate_v1 type: object properties: locale: type: string description: The locale of the date example: en_US value: type: string description: The value of the localized date format: date-time example: 2026-12-31T23:00:00Z LocalizedValueDouble: title: LocalizedValueDouble_v1 type: object properties: locale: type: string description: The locale of the data of type double example: en_US value: type: number description: The value of the localized data of type double format: double example: 5.0 LocalizedValueInteger: title: LocalizedValueInteger_v1 type: object properties: locale: type: string description: The locale of the data of type integer example: en_US value: type: integer description: The value of the localized data of type integer format: int32 example: 2 LocalizedValueListBigDecimal: title: LocalizedValueListBigDecimal_v1 type: object properties: locale: type: string description: The locale of the BigDecimal list entry example: en_US value: type: array description: The value of the localized BigDecimal list entry example: "50" items: type: number LocalizedValueListBoolean: title: LocalizedValueListBoolean_v1 type: object properties: locale: type: string description: The locale of the boolean list entry example: en_US value: type: array description: The value of the localized boolean list entry example: "true" items: type: boolean LocalizedValueListDate: title: LocalizedValueListDate_v1 type: object properties: locale: type: string description: The locale of the date list entry example: en_US value: type: array description: The value of the localized date list entry example: 2026-12-31T21:00:00Z items: type: string format: date-time LocalizedValueListDouble: title: LocalizedValueListDouble_v1 type: object properties: locale: type: string description: The locale of the double list entry example: en_US value: type: array description: The value of the localized double list entry example: "4.0" items: type: number format: double LocalizedValueListInteger: title: LocalizedValueListInteger_v1 type: object properties: locale: type: string description: The locale of the integer list entry example: en_US value: type: array description: The value of the localized integer list entry example: "8" items: type: integer format: int32 LocalizedValueListLong: title: LocalizedValueListLong_v1 type: object properties: locale: type: string description: The locale of the long list entry example: en_US value: type: array description: The value of the localized long list entry example: 2L items: type: integer format: int64 LocalizedValueListString: title: LocalizedValueListString_v1 type: object properties: locale: type: string description: The locale of the string list entry example: en_US value: type: array description: The value of the localized string list entry example: - LocString1 - LocString2 items: type: string description: A localized string list LocalizedValueLong: title: LocalizedValueLong_v1 type: object properties: locale: type: string description: The locale of the data of type long example: en_US value: type: integer description: The value of the localized data of type long format: int64 LocalizedValueMoneyRO_v1: type: object properties: locale: type: string value: $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1" LocalizedValueQuantityRO_v1: type: object properties: locale: type: string value: $ref: "#/components/schemas/QuantityRO_v1" LocalizedValueString: title: LocalizedValueString_v1 type: object properties: locale: type: string description: The locale of the string example: en_US value: type: string description: The value of the localized string example: LocString description: A localized string value LongAttribute_v1: title: LongAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: integer description: The long value of the (custom) attribute format: int64 type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: Long)" example: Long LongListAttribute_v1: required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The long list value of the (custom) attribute items: type: integer format: int64 type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: LongList)" example: LongList MoneyAttribute_v1: title: MoneyAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: Money)" example: Money MoneyRO_v1: title: MoneyRO_v1 type: object properties: amount: type: number description: The monetary amount example: 10.99 currency: type: string description: Three-letter currency code (ISO 4217) of the monetary value example: USD description: Describes a money object QuantityAttribute_v1: title: QuantityAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: $ref: "#/components/schemas/QuantityRO_v1" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: Quantity)" example: Quantity QuantityRO_v1: type: object properties: amount: type: number description: The amount of the quantity example: 10 unit: type: string description: The unit of the quantity example: kg description: The quantity of a business entity RangeConditionRO_v1: type: object properties: attribute: type: string description: ID of the indexed attribute the condition should be checked on example: ProductListPrice max: type: string description: The maximum value the attribute can have to match the condition example: "542" min: type: string description: The minimum value the attribute must have to match the condition example: "50" description: "A condition which is checked for a given attribute to be higher\ \ than or equal to the minimum, and/or lower than or equal to the maximum" SortingRO_v1: type: object properties: attribute: type: string description: ID of the indexed attribute the sorting should be applied on example: ProductListPrice direction: type: string description: The sort direction example: ASC enum: - ASC - DESC description: A sorting statement for sorting the dynamically assigned products by a given indexed attribute StringAttribute_v1: title: StringAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: string description: The string value of the (custom) attribute example: stringValue type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: String)" example: String StringListAttribute_v1: title: StringListAttribute_v1 required: - name type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The string list value of the (custom) attribute example: - stringValue1 - stringValue2 items: type: string description: The string list value of the (custom) attribute example: "[\"stringValue1\",\"stringValue2\"]" type: type: string description: "The type of the (custom) attribute (here: StringList)" example: StringList ValueConditionRO_v1: type: object properties: attribute: type: string description: ID of the indexed attribute the condition should be checked on example: Color_of_product operator: type: string description: Operator to apply on the specified attribute value enum: - EQUALS - NOT_EQUALS value: type: string description: The value to match the condition. Must be defined as a string even when using numeric values. example: Red description: A condition that is checked for a given value of a given indexed attribute WeightRO_v1: type: object properties: attribute: type: string description: ID of the indexed attribute the sorting should be applied on example: ManufacturerName percentage: type: string description: The percentage of the sorting weight example: "10" value: type: string description: The value the weight should be applied to example: inSPIREDManufacturing description: A weight statement for sorting the dynamically assigned products while applying a given weight to a given attribute value CatalogPatchRO: type: object properties: data: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CatalogDataRO_v1" keys: uniqueItems: true type: array writeOnly: true items: type: string declaredKeys: type: array items: type: string empty: type: boolean CatalogListRESTResponse_v1: title: CatalogListRESTResponse_v1 type: object properties: data: type: array description: The data of the response object items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CatalogRESTResponse_v1" info: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ListInfoRO_v1" messages: type: array readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" ListInfoRO_v1: title: ListInfoRO_v1 type: object properties: hasMoreElements: type: boolean description: Flag that expresses if there are more entries available readOnly: true example: true limit: type: integer description: The limit of list entries to be shown format: int32 readOnly: true example: 20 offset: type: integer description: Excludes the first N items from the list format: int32 readOnly: true example: 10 total: type: integer description: The total amount of entries in the list format: int32 readOnly: true example: 30 description: The optional information about the response object. All values are also optional. readOnly: true CategoryAspectContentRO_v1: title: CategoryAspectContentRO_v1 type: object properties: image: $ref: "#/components/schemas/BasicImageRefRO_v1" longDescription: type: array properties: empty: type: boolean first: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" last: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" name: type: array properties: empty: type: boolean first: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" last: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" description: The localized name of the catalog category items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" shortDescription: type: array properties: empty: type: boolean first: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" last: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" description: The localized description of the catalog category items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" description: The content information about the catalog category CategoryAspectVisibilityRO_v1: title: CategoryAspectVisibilityRO_v1 type: object properties: onlineStatusDefinition: type: string description: The online status definition of the category example: ONLINE enum: - ONLINE - OFFLINE description: Visibility information about the category CategoryDataRO_v1: title: CategoryDataRO_v1 type: object properties: attributes: type: array description: The (custom) attributes of an object items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" content: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CategoryAspectContentRO_v1" dynamicAssignmentConfig: $ref: "#/components/schemas/AspectDynamicAssignmentConfigRO_v1" visibility: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CategoryAspectVisibilityRO_v1" CategoryInfoRO_v1: title: CategoryInfoRO_v1 type: object description: Optional information of the response object readOnly: true CategoryListRESTResponse_v1: title: CategoryListRESTResponse_v1 type: object properties: data: type: array description: The core data of the response object items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CategoryRESTResponse_v1" info: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ListInfoRO_v1" messages: type: array readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" CategoryRESTResponse_v1: title: CategoryRESTResponse_v1 type: object properties: id: type: string description: The identifier of the response object example: categoryID data: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CategoryDataRO_v1" info: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CategoryInfoRO_v1" messages: type: array description: "List of messages regarding the request (e.g., value adjustments)" readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" ProductRefListRESTResponse_v1: title: ProductRefListRESTResponse_v1 type: object properties: data: type: array description: The core data of the response object items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRefRO_v1" info: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ListInfoRO_v1" messages: type: array readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" ProductRefRO_v1: title: ProductRefRO_v1 type: object properties: id: type: string description: The identifier of the product reference example: productID description: The reference to a product CategoryPatchRO: type: object properties: data: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CategoryDataRO_v1" keys: uniqueItems: true type: array writeOnly: true items: type: string declaredKeys: type: array items: type: string empty: type: boolean ImageInfoRO_v1: title: ImageInfoRO_v1 type: object properties: effectiveUrl: type: string description: The info of an image ImageRO_v1: title: ImageRO_v1 type: object properties: imagePath: type: string description: "The image location (usually consists of file name, path parts\ \ or URL parts), example: L/3740178-1748.jpg" type: type: string description: "The type ID of the image, e.g., thumbnail, image etc." view: type: string description: "The view ID of the image, e.g., front, back, default etc." description: The content of an image LocalizedStringListRO: title: LocalizedStringList type: array properties: empty: type: boolean first: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueListString" last: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueListString" items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueListString" ProductAspectContentRO_v1: title: ProductAspectContentRO_v1 type: object properties: attachments: type: array description: "A list of attachments described by locale, type, name, description,\ \ includeInEMail and location" items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductAttachmentRO_v1" images: type: array description: "A list of images described by imagePath, type and view" items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ImageRO_v1" longDescription: type: array properties: empty: type: boolean first: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" last: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" description: A list of localized long descriptions of the product items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" name: type: array properties: empty: type: boolean first: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" last: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" description: A list of localized product names items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" primaryImageView: type: string description: "The optional primaryImageView field allows a specific view\ \ to be set as the default view for the product, overriding the organization-level\ \ primary image view" example: primaryImageID shortDescription: type: array properties: empty: type: boolean first: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" last: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" description: A list of localized short descriptions of the product items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" description: The content of the product ProductAspectFulfillmentRO_v1: title: ProductAspectFulfillmentRO_v1 type: object properties: freightClass: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductFreightClassRefRO_v1" readyForShipmentMax: title: java.time.Duration type: object properties: seconds: type: integer format: int64 zero: type: boolean nano: type: integer format: int32 negative: type: boolean positive: type: boolean units: type: array items: type: object properties: durationEstimated: type: boolean timeBased: type: boolean dateBased: type: boolean description: The maximum duration (in ISO-8601 duration format) until the product is ready for shipment example: P10D readyForShipmentMin: title: java.time.Duration type: object properties: seconds: type: integer format: int64 zero: type: boolean nano: type: integer format: int32 negative: type: boolean positive: type: boolean units: type: array items: type: object properties: durationEstimated: type: boolean timeBased: type: boolean dateBased: type: boolean description: The minimum duration (in ISO-8601 duration format) until the product is ready for shipment example: P1D description: The fulfillment aspect of the product ProductAspectIdentificationRO_v1: title: ProductAspectIdentificationRO_v1 type: object properties: eanCode: type: string description: The EAN code of the product example: "1234567890123" description: The identification aspect of the product ProductAspectInventoryRO_v1: title: ProductAspectInventoryRO_v1 type: object properties: alwaysInStock: type: boolean description: "Indicates that the product is always available and can be\ \ sold without explicit inventory checks, if true" example: true description: The inventory aspect of the product ProductAspectLifecycleRO_v1: title: ProductAspectLifecycleRO_v1 type: object properties: onlineStatusDefinition: type: string description: The status of the product example: ONLINE enum: - ONLINE - OFFLINE description: The lifecycle aspect of the product ProductAspectManufacturerRO_v1: title: ProductAspectManufacturerRO_v1 type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element sku: type: string description: The manufacturer aspect of the product ProductAspectPricingRO_v1: title: ProductAspectPricingRO_v1 type: object properties: costPrices: type: array description: The cost prices of the product items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1" listPrices: type: array description: The list prices of the product items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1" taxClass: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductTaxClassRefRO_v1" description: The pricing aspect of the product ProductAspectQuotingRO_v1: title: ProductAspectQuotingRO_v1 type: object properties: quoteRequired: type: boolean description: Defines whether the product requires quotation example: true description: The quoting aspect of the product ProductAspectRetailSetRO_v1: title: ProductAspectRetailSetRO_v1 type: object properties: products: type: array description: The retail set items of the retail set items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRetailSetItemRO_v1" description: The retail set aspect of the product ProductAspectSalesRO_v1: title: ProductAspectSalesRO_v1 type: object properties: maxOrderQuantity: $ref: "#/components/schemas/QuantityRO_v1" minOrderQuantity: $ref: "#/components/schemas/QuantityRO_v1" packingQuantity: $ref: "#/components/schemas/QuantityRO_v1" stepQuantity: $ref: "#/components/schemas/QuantityRO_v1" description: The sales aspect of the product ProductAspectSearchRO_v1: title: ProductAspectSearchRO_v1 type: object properties: searchIndexKeywords: type: array properties: empty: type: boolean first: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueListString" last: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueListString" description: The indexing keywords for search items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueListString" description: The search aspect of the product ProductAspectSupplierRO_v1: title: ProductAspectSupplierRO_v1 type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element sku: type: string description: The supplier aspect of the product ProductAspectVariationMasterRO_v1: title: ProductAspectVariationMasterRO_v1 type: object properties: defaultVariation: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRefRO_v1" variationAttributes: type: array description: The variation attributes of the variation master items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductVariationAttributeRO_v1" variations: type: array description: The variations of the variation master items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRefRO_v1" ProductAttachmentRO_v1: title: ProductAttachmentRO_v1 type: object properties: locale: type: string description: The locale of the product attachment type: type: string description: "The type of product attachment [Information,Contract,Manual,Other]" name: type: string description: The product attachment name description: type: string description: The product attachment description includeInEMail: type: boolean description: A true or false value to indicate whether or not to add the product attachment to the order confirmation e-mail location: type: string description: The product attachment location description: The content of a product attachment ProductDataRO_v1: title: ProductDataRO_v1 type: object properties: attributes: type: array description: The (custom) attributes of an object items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/Attribute_v1" content: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductAspectContentRO_v1" fulfillment: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductAspectFulfillmentRO_v1" identification: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductAspectIdentificationRO_v1" inventory: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductAspectInventoryRO_v1" lifecycle: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductAspectLifecycleRO_v1" manufacturer: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductAspectManufacturerRO_v1" pricing: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductAspectPricingRO_v1" quoting: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductAspectQuotingRO_v1" retailSet: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductAspectRetailSetRO_v1" sales: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductAspectSalesRO_v1" search: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductAspectSearchRO_v1" supplier: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductAspectSupplierRO_v1" variationMaster: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductAspectVariationMasterRO_v1" ProductFreightClassRefRO_v1: title: ProductFreightClassRefRO_v1 type: object properties: id: type: string description: The identifier of the freight class reference example: FREIGHT_CLASS description: The reference to a freight class of a product ProductInfoRO_v1: title: ProductInfoRO_v1 type: object properties: images: type: array description: A list of images providing the effectiveURL items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ImageInfoRO_v1" lastModified: type: string description: The date the product was last modified format: date-time partOfRetailSets: type: array description: The references to the retail sets the product is part of items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRefRO_v1" sourceProduct: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductDataRO_v1" variationMasterProduct: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRefRO_v1" description: The optional info of the response object. This section is read-only. readOnly: true ProductRESTResponse_v1: title: ProductRESTResponse_v1 type: object properties: id: type: string description: The identifier of the response object example: productID data: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductDataRO_v1" info: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductInfoRO_v1" messages: type: array description: "List of messages regarding the request (e.g., value adjustments)" readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" description: The core data of the response object ProductRetailSetItemRO_v1: title: ProductRetailSetItemRO_v1 type: object properties: quantity: $ref: "#/components/schemas/QuantityRO_v1" product: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRefRO_v1" ProductTaxClassRefRO_v1: title: ProductTaxClassRefRO_v1 type: object properties: id: type: string description: The identifier of the tax class reference example: FULL_TAX_CLASS description: The reference to a tax class of a product ProductVariationAttributeRO_v1: title: ProductVariationAttributeRO_v1 type: object properties: displayName: type: array properties: empty: type: boolean first: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" last: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" description: The localized display name of the variation attribute items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/LocalizedValueString" name: type: string description: The name of the variation attribute example: color variationSelection: type: string description: The selected variation example: colorCode enum: - default - colorCode - defaultAndColorCode - swatchImage - defaultAndSwatchImage productAttributeName: type: string description: The product attribute name of the product variation attribute example: ExampleAttributeName ProductPatchRO: type: object properties: data: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductDataRO_v1" keys: uniqueItems: true type: array writeOnly: true items: type: string declaredKeys: type: array items: type: string empty: type: boolean ProductListRESTResponse_v1: title: ProductListRESTResponse_v1 type: object properties: data: type: array description: The core data of the response object items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ProductRESTResponse_v1" info: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ListInfoRO_v1" messages: type: array readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" responses: "200": description: OK "201": description: Created "202": description: Accepted "204": description: No Content "205": description: Reset Content "206": description: Partial Content "300": description: Multiple Choices "301": description: Moved Permanently "302": description: Found "303": description: See Other "304": description: Not Modified "305": description: Use Proxy "307": description: Temporary Redirect "308": description: Permanent Redirect "400": description: Bad Request "401": description: Unauthorized "402": description: Payment Required "403": description: Forbidden "404": description: Not Found "405": description: Method Not Allowed "406": description: Not Acceptable "407": description: Proxy Authentication Required "408": description: Request Timeout "409": description: Conflict "410": description: Gone "411": description: Length Required "412": description: Precondition Failed "413": description: Request Entity Too Large "414": description: Request-URI Too Long "415": description: Unsupported Media Type "416": description: Requested Range Not Satisfiable "417": description: Expectation Failed "428": description: Precondition Required "429": description: Too Many Requests "431": description: Request Header Fields Too Large "451": description: Unavailable For Legal Reasons "500": description: Internal Server Error "501": description: Not Implemented "502": description: Bad Gateway "503": description: Service Unavailable "504": description: Gateway Timeout "505": description: HTTP Version Not Supported "511": description: Network Authentication Required parameters: loc: name: loc in: path description: "The locale ID (submitted as optional matrix parameter ```;loc=```).\ \ If omitted, the priority is as follows (from high to low): Locale ID parameter,\ \ user's default locale, site's default locale. The available locales depend\ \ on your individual Intershop Commerce Management installation. Use IANA\ \ language definitions for languages and regions and combine them using an\ \ underscore, e.g., ```en_US```." required: false style: matrix schema: type: string description: "The locale ID (submitted as optional matrix parameter ```;loc=```).\ \ If omitted, the priority is as follows (from high to low): Locale ID parameter,\ \ user's default locale, site's default locale. The available locales depend\ \ on your individual Intershop Commerce Management installation. Use IANA\ \ language definitions for languages and regions and combine them using\ \ an underscore, e.g., ```en_US```." default: en_US examples: en_US: description: English (United States) value: en_US fr_FR: description: French (France) value: fr_FR de_DE: description: German (Germany) value: de_DE x-matrixParamPath: / cur: name: cur in: path description: "The currency code (submitted as optional matrix parameter ```;cur=```).\ \ If omitted, the site's or user's default currency is used." required: false style: matrix schema: type: string description: "The currency code (submitted as optional matrix parameter ```;cur=```).\ \ If omitted, the site's or user's default currency is used." default: USD examples: FJD: description: Fiji Dollar value: FJD MXN: description: Mexican Peso value: MXN STD: description: São Tomé / Príncipe Dobra value: STD LVL: description: Latvian Lats value: LVL SCR: description: Seychelles Rupee value: SCR CDF: description: Congolese Franc value: CDF BBD: description: Barbados Dollar value: BBD GTQ: description: Guatemalan Quetzal value: GTQ CLP: description: Chilean Peso value: CLP HNL: description: Honduran Lempira value: HNL UGX: description: Ugandan Shilling value: UGX ZAR: description: South African Rand value: ZAR TND: description: Tunisian Dinar value: TND BSD: description: Bahamian Dollar value: BSD SLL: description: Sierra Leonean Leone value: SLL SDG: description: Sudanese Pound value: SDG IQD: description: Iraqi Dinar value: IQD CUP: description: Cuban Peso value: CUP GMD: description: Gambian Dalasi value: GMD TWD: description: New Taiwan Dollar value: TWD RSD: description: Serbian Dinar value: RSD ZRZ: description: Zaire value: ZRZ DOP: description: Dominican Peso value: DOP KMF: description: Comoro Franc value: KMF MYR: description: Malaysian Ringgit value: MYR FKP: description: Falkland Islands Pound value: FKP XOF: description: CFA Franc BCEAO value: XOF GEL: description: Lari value: GEL UYU: description: Uruguayan Peso value: UYU MAD: description: Moroccan Dirham value: MAD CVE: description: Cape Verde Escudo value: CVE TOP: description: Tongan Pa'anga value: TOP AZN: description: Azerbaijanian Manat value: AZN OMR: description: Omani Rial value: OMR PGK: description: Papua New Guinean Kina value: PGK KES: description: Kenyan Shilling value: KES SEK: description: Swedish Krona value: SEK BTN: description: Ngultrum value: BTN UAH: description: Ukrainian Hryvnia value: UAH GNF: description: Guinea Franc value: GNF ERN: description: Nakfa value: ERN MZN: description: Mozambican Metical value: MZN SVC: description: Salvadoran Colón value: SVC ARS: description: Argentine Peso value: ARS QAR: description: Qatari Riyal value: QAR IRR: description: Iranian Rial value: IRR NLG: description: Dutch Guilder value: NLG MRO: description: Mauritanian Ouguiya value: MRO CNY: description: Yuan Renminbi value: CNY THB: description: Thai Baht value: THB UZS: description: Uzbekistani Som value: UZS XPF: description: CFP Franc value: XPF BDT: description: Bangladeshi Taka value: BDT LYD: description: Libyan Dinar value: LYD BMD: description: Bermudian Dollar value: BMD KWD: description: Kuwaiti Dinar value: KWD PHP: description: Philippine Peso value: PHP RUB: description: Russian Ruble value: RUB PYG: description: Paraguayan Guarani value: PYG ISK: description: Iceland Krona value: ISK JMD: description: Jamaican Dollar value: JMD GWP: description: Guinea Peso value: GWP BEF: description: Belgian Franc value: BEF ESP: description: Spanish Peseta value: ESP COP: description: Colombian Peso value: COP MKD: description: Denar value: MKD USD: description: US Dollar value: USD DZD: description: Algerian Dinar value: DZD PAB: description: Panamanian Balboa value: PAB SGD: description: Singapore Dollar value: SGD ETB: description: Ethiopian Birr value: ETB KGS: description: Som value: KGS SOS: description: Somali Shilling value: SOS VEF: description: Venezuelan Bolivar Fuerte value: VEF VUV: description: Vanuatu Vatu value: VUV LAK: description: Lao Kip value: LAK BND: description: Brunei Dollar value: BND ZMK: description: Zambian Kwacha value: ZMK XAF: description: CFA Franc BEAC value: XAF LRD: description: Liberian Dollar value: LRD ATS: description: Austrian Schilling value: ATS CHF: description: Swiss Franc value: CHF HRK: description: Croatian Kuna value: HRK ITL: description: Italian Lira value: ITL ALL: description: Albanian Lek value: ALL DJF: description: Djibouti Franc value: DJF MTL: description: Maltese Lira value: MTL TZS: description: Tanzanian Shilling value: TZS VND: description: Vietnamese Dong value: VND AUD: description: Australian Dollar value: AUD ILS: description: New Israeli Sheqel value: ILS GHS: description: Ghanaian Cedi value: GHS GYD: description: Guyanese Dollar value: GYD KPW: description: North Korean Won value: KPW BOB: description: Boliviano value: BOB KHR: description: Cambodian Riel value: KHR MDL: description: Moldovan Leu value: MDL IDR: description: Indonesian Rupiah value: IDR KYD: description: Cayman Islands Dollar value: KYD AMD: description: Armenian Dram value: AMD BWP: description: Botswana Pula value: BWP SHP: description: Saint Helena Pound value: SHP TRY: description: Turkish Lira value: TRY CYP: description: Cyprus Pound value: CYP LBP: description: Lebanese Pound value: LBP TJS: description: Tajikistani Somoni value: TJS JOD: description: Jordanian Dinar value: JOD AED: description: United Arab Emirates Dirham value: AED HKD: description: Hong Kong Dollar value: HKD RWF: description: Rwanda Franc value: RWF EUR: description: Euro value: EUR LSL: description: Lesotho Loti value: LSL DKK: description: Danish Krone value: DKK CAD: description: Canadian Dollar value: CAD BGN: description: Bulgarian Lev value: BGN EEK: description: Estonian Kroon value: EEK MMK: description: Kyat value: MMK MUR: description: Mauritian Rupee value: MUR NOK: description: Norwegian Krone value: NOK SYP: description: Syrian Pound value: SYP ZWL: description: Zimbabwean Dollar value: ZWL GIP: description: Gibraltar Pound value: GIP RON: description: Romanian New Leu value: RON LKR: description: Sri Lankan Rupee value: LKR NGN: description: Nigerian Naira value: NGN CRC: description: Costa Rican Colon value: CRC CZK: description: Czech Koruna value: CZK IEP: description: Irish Pound value: IEP PKR: description: Pakistani Rupee value: PKR GRD: description: Greek Drachma value: GRD XCD: description: East Carribean Dollar value: XCD ANG: description: Netherlands Antillian Guilder value: ANG HTG: description: Haitian Gourde value: HTG BHD: description: Bahraini Dinar value: BHD SIT: description: Slovenian Tolar value: SIT PTE: description: Portuguese Escudo value: PTE BPP: description: Bonus Point Price value: BPP KZT: description: Kazakhstani Tenge value: KZT SRD: description: Surinam Dollar value: SRD SZL: description: Swazi Lilangeni value: SZL LTL: description: Lithuanian Litas value: LTL SAR: description: Saudi Riyal value: SAR TTD: description: Trinidad and Tobago Dollar value: TTD YER: description: Yemeni Rial value: YER MVR: description: Maldivian Rufiyaa value: MVR AFN: description: Afghani value: AFN BPV: description: Bonus Point Value value: BPV INR: description: Indian Rupee value: INR AWG: description: Aruban Florin value: AWG KRW: description: South Korean Won value: KRW NPR: description: Nepalese Rupee value: NPR JPY: description: Japanese Yen value: JPY MNT: description: Mongolian Tugrik value: MNT AOA: description: Angolan Kwanza value: AOA PLN: description: Polish Złoty value: PLN GBP: description: Pound Sterling value: GBP SBD: description: Solomon Islands Dollar value: SBD HUF: description: Hungarian Forint value: HUF BYR: description: Belarussian Ruble value: BYR LUF: description: Luxembourgian Franc value: LUF BIF: description: Burundi Franc value: BIF MWK: description: Malawian Kwacha value: MWK MGA: description: Malagasy Ariary value: MGA FIM: description: Finnish Mark value: FIM BZD: description: Belize Dollar value: BZD DEM: description: Deutsche Mark value: DEM BAM: description: Convertible Marks value: BAM EGP: description: Egyptian Pound value: EGP MOP: description: Macanese Pataca value: MOP NAD: description: Namibian Dollar value: NAD SKK: description: Slovakian Krona value: SKK NIO: description: Cordoba Oro value: NIO PEN: description: Peruvian Nuevo Sol value: PEN NZD: description: New Zealand Dollar value: NZD WST: description: Samoan Tala value: WST TMT: description: Turkmenistani Manat value: TMT FRF: description: French Franc value: FRF BRL: description: Brazilian Real value: BRL x-matrixParamPath: / regionals: name: regionals in: path required: false style: matrix schema: type: object properties: loc: type: string description: The locale ID example: en_US cur: type: string description: The currency code example: EUR x-matrixParamPath: / pgid: name: pgid in: path description: "The personalization group identifier, submitted as matrix parameter\ \ ```;pgid=```. Required if you want to work with customer-specific\ \ content." required: false style: matrix schema: type: string description: "The personalization group identifier, submitted as matrix parameter\ \ ```;pgid=```. Required if you want to work with customer-specific\ \ content." example: FUOGrzQ_VjORpGaN8DRGmLLE0000 example: FUOGrzQ_VjORpGaN8DRGmLLE0000 spgid: name: spgid in: path description: "The secure personalization group identifier, submitted as matrix\ \ parameter ```;spgid=```. Required if you want to work with customer-specific\ \ content." required: false style: matrix schema: type: string description: "The secure personalization group identifier, submitted as matrix\ \ parameter ```;spgid=```. Required if you want to work with customer-specific\ \ content." example: FUOGrzQ_VjORpGaN8DRGmLLE0000 example: FUOGrzQ_VjORpGaN8DRGmLLE0000 securitySchemes: bearerAuth: type: http description: "Bearer token authentication. A request contains a header field\ \ in the form of authorization: ```Bearer ```, where is a string\ \ generated by an authentication service in response to a login request." scheme: bearer bearerFormat: JWT basicAuth: type: http description: "Basic access authentication. In basic authentication, a request\ \ contains a header field in the form of authorization: ```Basic ```,\ \ where credentials is the Base64 encoding of ID and password joined by a\ \ single colon :." scheme: basic authToken: type: apiKey description: User authentication token to authenticate the request. The token is a string generated by the ICM server in the same header in every response of an REST endpoint. name: authentication-token in: header x-apiID: pim_management_v1 x-beta: "true" x-origin-class: "com.intershop.component.rest.capi.resource.RootResource,com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.product.ProductListResource,com.intershop.application.rest.pim.v1.capi.resource.product.ProductListResource"