---
id: 'd2430daa2949a77bff8f0796afe51854'
title: 'Adding Users'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/4Y1281'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:30:27.157568+00:00'
---
# Adding Users

There are two ways to add users to the Admin Center. You can add an individual user by using the search functionality. Alternatively, you can add one or more users at a time by providing a list of e-mail addresses. The latter approach also allows to assign apps and modules to these users.

To add users:

*User Management*overview page opens. Here you can see a list of all users.

## Adding a User by Search

To add a user by search:

- Click Add by search.
-
Search for the user you want to add.
For details, see
[Searching for Users](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iap/master/iac_en/iac/user_management/task_searching_for_users.html). - Click on the user's name or check the box in front of the name.
-
Click the Add by search button (or discard this process by clicking the Cancel button).
The dialog closes and a confirmation message appears. The added user will be notified by e-mail.

## Adding Users by E-Mail Address

To add users by e-mail address:

-
Add Users:
-
Verify Data:
-
A preview list of users to be added opens. Here you can search for e-mail addresses, filter by status, and, if required, delete e-mail addresses from the list by clicking the
*Remove*icon (). - Click the Next >> button to proceed.

-
A preview list of users to be added opens. Here you can search for e-mail addresses, filter by status, and, if required, delete e-mail addresses from the list by clicking the
-
Select Apps & Modules:
-
Summary:
This displays the list of added users.
- Review your changes.
- Click the Finish button to return to the user list.