---
id: 'd2e213b0184a29538e420be4e13596ae'
title: 'Synchronizing Product Changes Manually'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3276V3'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:35.079480+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/3276V3

# Synchronizing Product Changes Manually

To synchronize changes to products in the source repositories with the current repository:
-
Select the intended channel from the context selection box, then select Mass Data Tasks | Product Syndication.
This displays the Syndication & Synchronization overview page.

-
Select Synchronization.
This displays a list of all source repositories from which the products in the current channel repository were derived. The view shows for each repository how many products have changed.

-
Select the source repositories from which you intend to synchronize changes.
-
Start the synchronization process.
Click Synchronize to synchronize all products that have changed. To synchronize selected products only, select the Details link and select the products to synchronize.


## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.