---
id: 'd44eda374f456b45ff5173985565c131'
title: 'Assigning Promotions to Campaigns'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/Y32562'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:30.379689+00:00'
---
# Assigning Promotions to Campaigns

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Marketing | Campaigns.
This opens the campaigns manager displaying a list of all campaigns for the current channel.
-
Click the name of the campaign you wish to edit.
The campaign details view is displayed.
-
Select the Content tab.
This tab shows the assigned promotions and content objects. You have two options for assigning a promotion:
- Assigning an existing promotion, therefore:
- Click Assign in the Promotions section.This displays a list of available promotions.Note:Promotions that are already assigned to the current campaign are not listed.
- Use the checkboxes to select the promotions that should be assigned.
- Click Finish.
The selected promotions are immediately assigned to the current campaign.


- Click Assign in the Promotions section.
- Creating a new promotion and assigning it implicitly, therefore:
- Click New in the Promotions section.
This displays the General tab of the new promotion's detail view.

- Edit all data as required, and click Apply to save your settings.

- Click New in the Promotions section.

For details, see[Creating Promotions](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/online_marketing/topic_creating_promotions.html#task_mkt_promo_create). Clicking Back to List returns you to the Content tab of the campaign detail view. - Assigning an existing promotion, therefore: