---
id: 'd4e56dcfd528f46affdde399dd60101c'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/30H955'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:37:02.476516+00:00'
---
Info

This document provides a high-level overview of the Intershop CAPTCHA Framework (cartridges:* bc_captcha, ac_captcha_recaptcha*).

The *bc_captcha* cartridge provides all interfaces required to implement a CAPTCHA managed service. The concrete implementations of the individual services (reCAPTCHA V2 and V3) are located in the *ac_captcha_recaptcha* cartridge.

The CAPTCHA framework provides the ability to connect to any CAPTCHA validation service/provider or implementation. The implementation is based on the [Overview - Managed Service Framework](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1758626643/Overview+-+Managed+Service+Framework) for easy activation and configuration.

It defines the base and ensures that all possible CAPTCHA implementations are done in the same way using the API provided here to connect to Intershop Commerce Management.

A CAPTCHA protects web sites from bots by generating and scoring tests that humans can pass but current computer programs cannot. For example, humans are able to read distorted text or understand alienated audio sound, but current computer programs are not.

The term CAPTCHA (for Completely Automated Public Turing Test To Tell Computers and Humans Apart) was coined in 2000 by Luis von Ahn, Manuel Blum, Nicholas Hopper and John Langford of Carnegie Mellon University.

Name | Meaning |
|---|---|
CAPTCHA | Functionality to protect against spam or bots |
Challenge | The audio/video task to solve |
Generate | Create an audio/a video challenge |
Validate | Check the given solution for a challenge |

The following class diagram shows the major classes and interfaces of the captcha framework that are relevant for the protection of REST resources.

The overview diagram shows:

`ReCaptchServiceImpl`

is a concrete implementation of the `RestCaptchaService`

interface and thus also of the `CaptchaService`

interface.`AuthenticationProvider`

provides a method to authenticate the corresponding REST Resource.`CaptchaAuthenticationProvider`

invokes the `verifyCaptcha`

method defined in the `CaptchaService`

interface.`verifyCaptcha`

method of each CAPTCHA service implementation.`verify`

method of the class `ReCaptchaVerificationService`

.`verify`

method of the `ReCaptchaVerificationService`

interacts with Google reCAPTCHA backend and returns a `CaptchaResponse`

object.`CaptchaResponse`

contains a method `isVaild`

, which is used by the `CaptchaAuthenticationProvider`

to accept or reject the request.The `CaptchaAuthenticationProvider`

is already wired and available via the component framework. However, it needs to be added to the resource by adding the following to your component files:

<implementation name="MyNewResource" ...> ... <requires name="authenticationProvider" contract="AuthenticationProvider" cardinality="0..1" /> </implementation>

<instance with="MyNewResource" name="..."> ... <fulfill requirement="authenticationProvider" with="intershop.B2CWebShop.RESTAPI.CaptchaAuthProvider" /> </instance>

Now the resource knows of its authentication provider and can use it to protect certain calls:

public class MyNewResource extends AbstractRestResource { ... @POST public Response addSomeItem(SomeItemRO someItem) { if (authenticationProvider != null && authenticationProvider instanceof CaptchaAuthenticationProvider) { CaptchaAuthenticationProvider cap = (CaptchaAuthenticationProvider)authenticationProvider; if (cap.isCaptchaRequired("intershop.CaptchaPreferences.NewSomeItemPreference")) { cap.authenticate(currentRequest, currentResponse); } } ... // create the item ... return RestResponse.created(uriToNewItem); } ... }

If a REST Resource is protected by the `CaptchaAuthenticationProvider`

,* *the client has to add a corresponding authorization header to the request:

Authorization: CAPTCHA recaptcha_token=<captcha token> action=<ICM captcha feature>

The CAPTCHA token will always be provided by the Google reCAPTCHA framework. The determination of the token depends on the CAPTCHA version used and must be implemented by the client, see [CAPTCHA in the PWA @GitHub](https://github.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/blob/develop/docs/concepts/captcha.md). The action corresponds to the selectable CAPTCHA channel preferences in ICM. If these preferences are disabled in ICM, then the CAPTCHA validation for this topic is also disabled in the REST resource.

For more information on implementing CAPTCHA functionality in the PWA, see [CAPTCHA in the PWA @GitHub](https://github.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/blob/develop/docs/concepts/captcha.md).

The PWA uses the [Angular Formly framework](https://formly.dev/docs/guide/getting-started) to handle web forms. The framework allows you to define types that can be used by the fields of the form.

For the integration of the CAPTCHA functionality, a special type has been implemented. You can bind a field of this type to any Formly form, so that this form is validated according to CAPTCHA.

This field is declared in *src.app.shared.formly.types.captcha-field. captcha-field.component.ts *and registered in the

This makes it very easy to protect any web form by using the CAPTCHA functionality. The following example shows how to add a CAPTCHA field of type ‘*ish-captcha-field*’ to any Formly form.


First the TypeScript file of the component:

export class ExamplePageComponent implements OnInit { ... fields: FormlyFieldConfig[]; exampleFormGroup = new UntypedFormGroup({}); ... ngOnInit() { ... this.fields = [ { type: 'ish-captcha-field', props: { topic: 'forgotPassword', }, }, ]; } ... }

The type ‘*ish-captcha-field*’ is registered at *src.app.shared.formly.types. types.module.ts*.

The following table shows the mapping between the existing PWA CAPTCHA topic names and the CAPTCHA channel preferences in the ICM:

CaptchaTopic | ICM Settings |
|---|---|
| contactUs | Contact Us |
| emailShoppingCart | E-mail Shopping Cart |
| forgotPassword | Forgot password |
| redemptionOfGiftCardsAndCertificates | Redemption of Gift Cards & Certificates |
| register | Registration |

The following code block shows an example of the HTML syntax of the component:

<form name="ExampleForm" [formGroup]="exampleFormGroup" (ngSubmit)="submitForm()"> <formly-form [form]="exampleFormGroup" [fields]="fields"></formly-form> <div class="row form-group"> <div class="offset-md-4 col-md-8"> <button type="submit" value="exampleButtonValue" name="exampleButtonName" class="btn btn-primary" [disabled]="buttonDisabled" > {{ 'example.form.send.button.label' | translate }} </button> </div> </div> </form>

Activation and configuration is done via the Managed Service framework, see [Concept - Managed Service Framework](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1759446169/Concept+-+Managed+Service+Framework) for details.

Each feature that uses a CAPTCHA (e.g., the "E-mail to a friend" feature) has a preference that controls the activation/deactivation of the CAPTCHA for that specific feature. These preferences can be viewed in the back office, as shown in the next screenshot:

Dynamic configuration of each CAPTCHA service is possible as described in the [Concept - Managed Service Framework](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1759446169/Concept+-+Managed+Service+Framework#Concept-ManagedServiceFramework-DynamicConfiguration). Basically the two important steps are:

The dynamic parameters are then available and configurable in the back office as shown in the next screenshot. Note that the parameters are service-specific.

For information on activating a service, refer to [Concept - Managed Service Framework](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1759446169/Concept+-+Managed+Service+Framework).

The following image shows the defined interfaces and classes. An explanation of each follows below.

**CaptchaService**

This interface must be implemented by each CAPTCHA service that should be developed. The implementation must be done using the Managed Service framework.

*com.intershop.component.captcha.capi.CaptchaService*

**CaptchaCapabilities**

This interface defines the core capabilities for the CAPTCHA services.

Basically:

*com.intershop.component.captcha.capi.CaptchaCapabilities*

**CaptchaResponse**

This class defines a data container used to hand over the CAPTCHA check output data (method `verifyCaptcha `

in `CaptchaService`

) back to the `CaptchaValidator.`


*com.intershop.component.captcha.internal.CaptchaResponse*

**CaptchaValidator**

This class is referenced in the `Captcha.webform`

definition for the webform parameter holding the CAPTCHA answer. In this class, the CAPTCHA validation service implementation (method `verifyCaptcha`

) is invoked.

Preconditions are:

*com.intershop.component.captcha.internal.CaptchaValidator*

**Captcha.webform**

Contains the reference to the `CaptchaValidator`

.

*bc_captcha\staticfiles\cartridge\webforms\Captcha.webform*

**CaptchaFormField.isml**

Encapsulates the functionality to display and validate a CAPTCHA implementation.

*bc_captcha\staticfiles\cartridge\templates\default\modules\captcha\CaptchaFormField.isml*

**CaptchaInclude.isml**

Encapsulates static includes (CSS, JS, etc.) required by the CAPTCHA implementation.

*bc_captcha\staticfiles\cartridge\templates\default\modules\captcha\CaptchaInclude.isml*

**Modules.isml**

Conatins the module definition for the two ISML template modules mentioned above.

*bc_captcha\staticfiles\cartridge\templates\default\modules\captcha\modules.isml*

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.