---
id: 'd58a1c1f67b8bbdbf78f538239090edf'
title: 'Managing Application Access Privileges'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3B2730'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:46.965377+00:00'
---
# Managing Application Access Privileges

- Specific users in the current organization,
- Roles in specific departments,
- Master roles of the current organization.

To manage access privileges for a role or user in an application:

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Applications.
This lists all applications deployed in this sales channel.
-
Click the name or ID of the application intended to edit.
This opens the General tab of the detail view.
-
Select the Access Privileges tab.
This displays a list of users, roles or master roles and their assigned permissions within the application.
-
Select users or the role type from the drop-down list in the "Select list to display" field and click Apply.
This displays a list of all users, department roles or master roles which have permissions assigned for this application.
-
Open the Detail view or click New.
Click the name of the user or role or click Edit in the row of the user or role for which you intend to edit permissions. Click New to assign permissions to a user or role that currently has no permissions in the application. Skip the department selection (next step) when you intend to edit permissions for a user or role that already has permissions in the application.
-
Select the department in which the role resides to which you intend to assign access privileges (for new access privileges of a department role only).
Browse the Department tree view to find the respective department. Select the radio button in front of the department to select it and click Next.
-
Choose the user or role for which you want to add access privileges in the application.
Select the checkbox in the row of the user or role for which you intend to add access privileges in the application and click Next.
-
Choose the appropriate access privileges for the user or role.
Select the checkbox in the row of the access privileges that you intend to assign to the user or role. Clear the checkbox in the row of the access privileges that you intend to withdraw from the user or role.
-
Click OK or Finish.
Your changes take effect immediately.