---
id: 'd59e2f8ea89fecf5978424c2122c901a'
title: 'Assigning Catalog Views to Customers'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/322H14'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:00.893271+00:00'
---
# Assigning Catalog Views to Customers

You can define to which target group, i.e., customers or customer segments, the catalog view applies. To do so:

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Catalogs | Catalog Views from the navigation bar.
This displays a list of existing catalog views.
-
Click the name of the catalog view to edit.
This displays the catalog view detail page.
-
Change to the Target Group tab.
This tab is divided into two sections:
-
Customer Segments: Lists all customer segments to which the catalog view is applied.

Note:In order to be able to assign customer segments as a target group, at least one segmentation service must be configured for the sales channel, see[Customer Segments](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/customer_management/concept_customer_segments.html). -
Customers: Lists all customers to which the catalog view is applied.


-
-
In the corresponding section (Customer Segments/Customers), click Assign.
This displays the available customer segments or customers, respectively.
-
Select the intended customer segment or customer and click OK.
The selected customer segment or customer is assigned to the catalog view. You are returned to the Target Group tab, which displays the updated customer segment/customer list.

Note:

You can assign catalog views to customers or customer segments also when editing customer or customer segment details, see