---
id: 'd6d8aeec04eafb1cc758b0907f46a92c'
title: 'Approving Product Data'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/323S21'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:32.243634+00:00'
---
# Approving Product Data

Product approvers can approve product data by setting the approval status to "Approved".

## Approving Product Data in Detail View

-
Locate the product that requires approval.
Tip:You may perform a search to identify the intended product.
-
Click the name of the product you intend to edit.
This opens the General tab of the Standard Product dialog, displaying the current approval status in the upper right corner.
-
Click Approve.
This switches the approval status for the current product to "Approved".

## Approving Product Data in Batch Mode

To set the approval status "Approved" in the product list for multiple products via batch mode, see [Editing Products in Batch Mode](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/task_editing_products_in_batch_mode.html):

-
Locate the products to be approved.
Select the checkboxes for the products on the product list view and click the Edit Selected button. Alternatively, perform an advanced search (see
[Advanced Search](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/task_advanced_search_products.html)) and click the Edit All button to apply edits to the search result. -
Select the task Update Product Approval Status and click Next.
This starts the wizard to update the product approval status.
-
Select the current approval and/or completeness status, set "Approved" as the new approval status, and click Next.
This displays the confirmation page.
-
Verify the changes to be applied, then click Finish.
This switches the approval status for the selected products to "Approved".