---
id: 'd7454ef932ce802d2fa4d5327b0d03a0'
title: 'Locking Page Variants'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3247R1'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:50.865022+00:00'
---
# Locking Page Variants

Before editing a page variant, you should lock the page variant. Locking prevents the page variant from being edited by other users in parallel. The page variant lock can be released manually. It is released automatically after the configured lock interval has expired. For details about how to configure the page variant lock interval, see [Defining Content Lock Period](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/operation_maintenance/task_defining_content_lock_period.html).

Basically, there are two ways to lock page variants: either directly from the page variant list, or via the page variant detail view.

## Locking Page Variants in List View

-
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Page Variants.
This opens the Page Variants list view.
-
Click the icon in the row of the page variant(s) you intend to edit.
An error message appears if the page variant is currently edited by another user.

## Locking Page Variants in Detail View

-
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Page Variants.
This opens the Page Variants list view.
-
Click the name of the page variant you intend to edit.
This opens the Content tab of the detail view.
-
Click the icon at the dialog top.
An error message appears if the page variant is currently edited by another user.