---
id: 'd78d8cb96a8b86de0df210c7a54946bd'
title: 'Setting Catalogs Online'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3T2310'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:29.773488+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/3T2310

# Setting Catalogs Online

Catalogs can be online or offline. An offline catalog is not visible to any other users, except catalog administrators. To set a catalog online or offline:
-
Select the intended management context from the context selection box, then select Catalogs | Catalogs.
This displays the catalog list view.

-
Click the icon in the row of the catalog or category you intend to edit.
This opens the Standard Product Catalog dialog. Catalogs or categories shared from a parent management context cannot be edited, but you can still change their online/offline status. To this end, click the

icon to open the detail view.

-
Select the Online/Offline tab.
-
In the Status field, set Online or Offline as value.
-
Specify the validity of the selected status.
The validity specifies when the selected status will be applied to the catalog. Select one of the two options, either Limited Period or Always. If you select Limited Period, you must set a start and an end time specifying the exact date and time in the corresponding fields.


## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.