---
id: 'd8bc4041025d6e19924d6e7d1fb1ad5f'
title: 'Creating Customer Segment'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3251R4'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:40.078678+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/3251R4

# Creating Customer Segment

To create a new custom customer segment:
-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Customers | Customer Segments.
A list of all custom customer segments is displayed.

Note: Implicit customer segments are not shown here.

-
Click New.
The customer segment detail view is displayed.

-
In the General tab, specify all mandatory information for the new customer segment.
The mandatory information includes the name and ID. The description is optional.

-
Click Apply.
The new customer segment is created. The Customers tab becomes active, and you can proceed to assign customers.

-
Change to the Customers tab.
-
Click New to assign customers to the customer segment.
The customer list view is displayed.

-
Select the customers for the customer segment and click Assign.

## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.