---
id: 'd927949272e67d9cd649de86bb37c2ae'
title: 'Assigning Customers to Price Lists'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32Q215'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:49.410497+00:00'
---
# Assigning Customers to Price Lists

-
Select the intended channel from the context selection box, then select Catalogs | Price Lists.
This displays the standard price list, the cost price list as well as a list of special price lists created for channel products.
-
Click the name of the price list you intend to edit.
This opens the price list detail view.
-
Change to the Target Group tab.
This tab is divided into two sections:
-
Customer Segments: Lists all customer segments to which the price list is applied.

Note:In order to be able to assign customer segments as a target group, at least one segmentation service must be configured for the sales channel, see[Customer Segments](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/customer_management/concept_customer_segments.html). -
Customers: Lists all customers to which the price list is applied.


-
-
In the corresponding section (Customer Segments/Customers), click Assign.
This displays the available customer segments or customers, respectively.
-
Select the intended customer segment or customer and click OK.
The selected customer segment or customer is assigned to the price list. You are returned to the Target Group tab, which displays the updated customer segment/customer list.

Tip:

You can assign price lists to customers or customer segments also when editing customer or customer segment details, see