---
id: 'd96b33db009daadf592b7b6df380cdd0'
title: 'Job'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/295E58'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:40:00.918362+00:00'
---
Name | CleanUpImpexJobs |
|---|---|
Domain | root |
Job Dependencies | none |
AcquiredResources | none |
Cartridge | bc_foundation |
Pipeline | CleanUpImpexJobs-Start |
Affected Domain Objects | none |
Affected Tables | none |
Stored Procedure | none |
Default State | Enabled (since 7.10.35) |
Is Site Specific | False |
Edit State | Disabled |
Live State | Disabled |
Description | When many jobs are executed, the job results (processes) grow over time and need to be removed. This job deletes all obsolete import/export jobs by name and minimum last execution time. |
Scheduling | On demand. It depends how often import/export processes are scheduled and need to be removed. Schedule appropriately, if obsolete import/export processes should be removed. |
What Happens Switched Off | If this job is not run, there might be a lot of job results in the database. This could blow up the database. In addition, huge lists of executed jobs can accumulate in the import / export area of the back office that are no longer needed. |
Trouble Shooting | |
Comments |

Product Version | 7.10 |
|---|---|
Product To Version | |
| Status |

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.