---
id: 'da2c557df99ec1d283e8d0f62b1160c3'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/29583E'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:45.246563+00:00'
---
This concept is intended for developers who want to learn more about the contents of Intershop's cookies.

All cookie configurations can be adjusted to meet the privacy and security needs of our customers.

The following table lists all cookies used in the standard product. Please note that customization of Intershop Commerce Management may extend this list. In addition, optional features such as Google Tag Manager may introduce additional cookies that are not part of this document.

|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
Session Cookie | sid | hash |
| session |
(*) | |||||
Authentication Cookie | SecureSessionID-<site-id> | user ref |
| Contains reference to user Does not contain login/password/name of user/addresses | depends on configuration value |
(*) | ||||
Personalization Cookie | pgid-<site-name> | hash |
| Hash does not reference any user or user/customer group | session |
| ||||
Basket Cookie | cc-<cart-id> | cart ref |
| Contains reference to cart Does not contain login/password/name of user/addresses | depends on domain preference |
| ||||
A/B-Test Cookie | <configured-value>-<ab-test-id> | ab-test-group ref |
| session | depends on configuration value | depends on configuration value |
| Mandatory for feature | ||
Recently Viewed Items | rvdata-<domain?>-products | product refs | depends on domain preference | depends on configuration value | depends on configuration value |
| Mandatory for feature | |||
REST API Bridge | apiToken | cart or user ref |
| Contains reference to user | depends on configuration value | depends on configuration value |
| Mandatory for feature | ||
Display Switch | cookie_test | nothing |
| session |
| Part of demo template Set CookiesDisabledOverlay.isml | ||||
OpenID Connect State | oidc_state | actual OIDC state, organization name, identity provider id |
| Contains reference to user's organization Does not contain login/password/name of user/addresses | session |
(*) | Mandatory for feature |

The table contains the default values for cookies. See [Guide - Secure URLs Only](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48581247408/Guide+-+Secure+URLs+Only) for information on using secure session and PGID cookies.

*) The `SameSite`

value of the cookies marked with an asterisk in the list above can be configured since ICM 12.4.

Each of the appropriate configuration properties is defined as follows:

Type: enum string

Allowed values: `strict`

, `lax`

, `none`


Mandatory: false

Default value: `lax`


|
|
|---|---|
sid | with
otherwise:
|
SecureSessionID-<site-id> |
|
oidc_state |
|

Cookies are intended to reference data in the application (database). The access to the database is limited.

|
|
|---|---|
user | shipping, billing addresses, login, orders, customer |
cart | shipping, billing addresses |
a/b test group | list of users/customers |

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.