---
id: 'db6186eda551edb34385d0a097244309'
title: 'Reference - Responsive Starter Store'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/295V86'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:37:29.974574+00:00'
---
This reference is a copy of the Responsive Starter Stores Dialog functionality in-code documentation (see */app_sf_responsive/staticfiles/cartridge/static/default/js/dialog.js *).

Info

url: 'http... | jQuery_selector', callback: false | function() { ... }, formData: false

.options({...}); .create(<url|jQuery_selector>, <callback>); .open(); .init(<modalHTMLcontent>);

Set the `data-dialog`

attribute at a link to open the given `href`

response in a dialog.

<a data-dialog href="http://...">Your Link</a>

Set the `data-dialog`

attribute at a `<div>`

and provide an additional `data-dialog-href`

attribute whose response should be opened in a dialog.

<div data-dialog data-dialog-href="http://...">Your Link</div>


Set the `data-dialog`

attribute at a button to open the surrounding forms action submit response in a dialog.

If an additional `data-dialog-action`

is provided, the button will submit the surrounding form with that action.

With an additional `data-dialog-form`

that has as value, a form ID, the button will trigger a submit of that given form instead of a surrounding one.

<button type="submit" data-dialog data-dialog-action="http://..." data-dialog-form="form_id">


Set the `data-dialog`

attribute at a form to open the given action submit response in a dialog.

<isform data-dialog="true" action="http://..." method="post">

When using `<isform>`

it is important to provide attributes always with a value.

The dialog/modal HTML content that needs to be returned by the given reference is the same as documented by Bootstrap ([https://getbootstrap.com/docs/3.4/javascript/#modals](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/3.4/javascript/#modals)) except for the most outer `<div class="modal">`

hook which is created by the Javascript.

<div class="modal-dialog"> <div class="modal-content"> <div class="modal-header"> <button type="button" class="close" data-dismiss="modal" title="<istext key="dialog.close.text">" aria-label="<istext key="dialog.close.text"/>"><span aria-hidden="true">×</span></button> <h2 class="modal-title">Modal title</h2> </div> <div class="modal-body"> ... </div> <div class="modal-footer"> ... </div> </div> </div>

This way one can add forms around any parts (e.g. content and footer) of the dialog content, or leave out unwanted parts (e.g. footer).

It is also possible to control for example the dialog size through the HTML of the returned content.

To render the result of an interaction again in the current dialog, the `data-hijax`

attribute is introduced.

Adding this attribute to any form or link within the dialog content will result in rendering the response content again in the current dialog.

<a data-hijax href="http://...">Open link in current dialog</a>

<isform data-hijax="true" action=""http://..." method="post">

When using `<isform>`

it is important to provide attributes always with a value.

To display local modal content (not getting the content via Ajax from the server) the following HTML structure is used.

The relevant part is providing a jQuery selector within the `href`

instead of an URL.

The jQuery selector has to point to a hidden `div`

that includes the complete `<div class="modal-dialog">...</div>`

part as described earlier.

<a data-dialog href="[data-local-modal-content]"> <div class="hidden" data-local-modal-content> <div class="modal-dialog"> <div class="modal-content"> ... </div> </div> </div>

In case a specific callback function is required once the dialog content is loaded, relying on the `data-dialog`

functionality will not work. In that case a specific handler needs to be used that uses the provided dialog methods.

Example dialog handling via JavaScript:

$(document).on('submit', '[my-form-selector]', function(event){ event.preventDefault(); Dialog = new dialog(); Dialog.options({ formData: form.serialize() }); Dialog.create(form.attr('action'), function() { // some callback function code }); Dialog.open(); });

For further documentation refer to the in-code documentation and comments of */app_sf_responsive/staticfiles/cartridge/static/default/js/dialog.js* .

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.