---
id: 'dc2e1105118ee232084048cf78ee9c91'
title: 'Reference'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3T1454'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:11.827373+00:00'
---
This API specification is available for download as an Open API 3.0 YAML file:

# References

The following page lists available REST APIs for ICM 13 and their version dependencies:

# API Specification

openapi: 3.0.1 info: title: Order description: "The _Order REST API_ contains resources that cover aspects of the\ \ checkout process and order handling.\n\nA typical checkout process requires\ \ a series of REST requests, some of which are based on one another and must therefore\ \ take place in a defined sequence. This cannot be sufficiently represented by\ \ the OpenAPI documentation only. \nDetailed descriptions of various checkout\ \ scenarios can be found in the [Business Guide \"Basket & Checkout REST API\"\ ](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/29035X) in the Intershop Knowledge Base.\n\ \nPlease also refer to the _Basket REST API v1_, which you can use to create and\ \ prepare baskets for checkout.\n\n#### API Versioning & Accept-Header\n\nMedia-type-based\ \ versioning is used to distinguish between different API versions. For requests\ \ to the _Order REST API v1_, the REST client must set the following HTTP ```Accept```\ \ header:\n\n```Accept: application/vnd.intershop.order.v1+json```\n\n## Changelog\n\ - - -\n### Version 1.8.0\n* Added new `info` section to `OrderListResource` containing\ \ paging information `limit`, `offset` and `total`\n* Paging parameters `limit`,\ \ `offset` are validated and, if necessary, adjusted according to configured min/max\ \ limits\n\n### Version 1.7.0\n* Ensured that `tax` value is set for attributes\ \ of `itemTotal` in `OrderTotalsRO_v1`\n\n### Version 1.6.0\n* Added new attribute\ \ `recurringOrderID` to `OrderRO_v1`\n* Added new parameter `buyer` for the order\ \ search\n* Added new boolean parameter `allBuyers` for the order search\n\n###\ \ Version 1.5.0\n* Added new query parameters `lineItem_product`, `lineItem_customerProductID`\ \ and `lineItem_partialOrderNo` to `OrderListResource` for order search based\ \ on line item search criteria\n* Added new query parameters `documentNumber`,\ \ `customerOrderID`, `creationDateFrom`, `creationDateTo` to `OrderListResource`\ \ for order search\n* Deprecated query parameter `orderDocumentNo` in order search\ \ for later removal, use the new parameter `documentNumber` instead\n* Deprecated\ \ query parameter `customerOrderId` in order search for later removal, use the\ \ new parameter `customerOrderID` instead\n* Deprecated query parameter `creationFromDate`\ \ in order search for later removal, use the new parameter `creationDateFrom`\ \ instead\n* Deprecated query parameter `creationToDate` in order search for later\ \ removal, use the new parameter `creationDateTo` instead\n\n### Version 1.4.0\n\ * __BETA__ | Added new attribute `customFields` to `OrderRO_v1` and `OrderLineItemRO_v1`\n\ * Added new query parameters `limit` and `offset` to `OrderListResource` for pagination\ \ of orders from order search\n* Deprecated query parameter `page[limit]` in order\ \ search for later removal, use the new parameter `limit` instead\n* Added new\ \ query parameters `orderDocumentNo`, `customerOrderId`, `creationFromDate`, `creationToDate`\ \ to `OrderListResource` for order search\n\n### Version 1.3.0\n* Added this changelog\n\ * Deprecated `externalOrderReference` in `OrderRO_v1` for later removal, use the\ \ new `customerOrderID` instead\n* Added new attribute `supplierOrderID` to `OrderRO_v1`\n\ * Added new attributes `customerProductID` and `partialOrderNo` to `OrderLineItemRO_v1`" contact: name: Intershop Communications AG url: http://intershop.com version: 1.8.0 servers: - url: "/INTERSHOP/rest/{serverGroup}/{siteName}/{appUrl}" description: Intershop ICM Server variables: serverGroup: description: The server group enum: - BOS - JOB - WFS default: WFS siteName: description: The site name default: inSPIRED-inTRONICS-Site appUrl: description: The application URL identifier enum: - rest default: rest tags: - name: General x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.attribute.OrderAttributeListResource - name: Line Item x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.attribute.LineItemAttributeListResource paths: /orders: get: tags: - General summary: Returns the list of orders for the user. description: "This operation returns the list of orders for the user. If user\ \ authentication fails, a 401 error with body string 'Unauthorized' is returned." operationId: getOrders_V1 parameters: - name: include in: query description: Related objects (as a comma-separated list) which are to be included with the response. style: form explode: false schema: type: array description: Related objects (as a comma-separated list) which are to be included with the response. items: type: string enum: - all - buckets - buckets_discounts - buckets_shipToAddress - buckets_shippingMethod - buyingContext - commonShipToAddress - commonShippingMethod - discounts - discounts_promotion - invoiceToAddress - lineItems - lineItems_discounts - lineItems_product - lineItems_shipToAddress - lineItems_shippingMethod - lineItems_warranty - payments - payments_paymentInstrument - payments_paymentMethod x-supported-include-type: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resourceobject.order.OrderRO x-include-type-lineItems_product: OrderProductRO_v1 x-include-type-payments_paymentInstrument: PaymentInstrumentRO_v1 x-include-type-lineItems_shippingMethod: OrderShippingMethodRO_v1 x-include-type-commonShippingMethod: OrderShippingMethodRO_v1 x-include-type-buckets: OrderShippingBucketRO_v1 x-include-type-payments: PaymentRO_v1 x-include-type-commonShipToAddress: AddressRO_v1 x-include-type-buckets_shippingMethod: OrderShippingMethodRO_v1 x-include-type-buckets_discounts: OrderDiscountRO_v1 x-include-type-lineItems_shipToAddress: AddressRO_v1 x-include-type-lineItems: OrderLineItemRO_v1 x-include-type-buyingContext: BuyingContextRO_v1 x-include-type-discounts: OrderDiscountRO_v1 x-include-type-lineItems_discounts: OrderDiscountRO_v1 x-include-type-discounts_promotion: OrderPromotionRO_v1 x-include-type-payments_paymentMethod: PaymentMethodRO_v1 x-include-type-invoiceToAddress: AddressRO_v1 x-include-type-buckets_shipToAddress: AddressRO_v1 x-include-type-lineItems_warranty: OrderWarrantyRO_v1 - name: "filter[statusCode]" in: query description: Filters the response for orders based on their (case-sensitive) order status. style: form explode: false schema: type: array description: Filters the response for orders based on their (case-sensitive) order status. example: "NEW,PENDING" items: type: string enum: - NEW - INPROGRESS - CANCELLED - CANCELLEDANDEXPORTED - NOTDELIVERABLE - DELIVERED - RETURNED - PENDING - COMPLETED - EXPORTED - EXPORTFAILED - MANUAL_INTERVENTION_NEEDED example: "NEW,PENDING" x-supported-order-status-codes: '*' - name: "filter[buyingContext]" in: query description: Filters the response for orders based on their buying context. schema: type: string description: Filters the response for orders based on their buying context. example: BioTech_Jena@BioTech default: "" example: BioTech_Jena@BioTech - name: "page[limit]" in: query description: "Limits the number of orders returned in the response. This parameter\ \ is deprecated, please use the `limit` parameter instead." deprecated: true schema: type: integer description: "Limits the number of orders returned in the response. This\ \ parameter is deprecated, please use the `limit` parameter instead." format: int32 example: 10 example: "10" - name: limit in: query description: "Limits the number of orders returned in the response. If set,\ \ it overwrites the old page[limit] parameter. If no value is provided,\ \ a default limit of 200 is used. The maximum allowed value is also 200.\ \ Both the default and maximum limits can be configured via the properties\ \ `rest.pagination.resources.orderSearch.defaultLimit` and `rest.pagination.resources.orderSearch.maxLimit`." schema: type: integer description: "Limits the number of orders returned in the response. If set,\ \ it overwrites the old page[limit] parameter. If no value is provided,\ \ a default limit of 200 is used. The maximum allowed value is also 200.\ \ Both the default and maximum limits can be configured via the properties\ \ `rest.pagination.resources.orderSearch.defaultLimit` and `rest.pagination.resources.orderSearch.maxLimit`." format: int32 example: 10 example: "10" - name: offset in: query description: Offsets the number of orders returned in the response. schema: type: integer description: Offsets the number of orders returned in the response. format: int32 example: 20 example: "20" - name: orderDocumentNo in: query description: |- Filters the response for order(s) with a specific orderDocumentNo. You can provide multiple parameters with the same name, e.g., ?orderDocumentNo=123*&orderDocumentNo=ABCD. In this case, the conditions are linked with OR (find all orders where orderDocumentNo starts with 123 or is ABCD). This parameter is deprecated, please use the `documentNumber` parameter instead. The following wildcards can be used: - ? - only one character - \* - multiple characters (any string) Restrictions: - The wildcards cannot be used alone (without any other string). - The search string must not start with a wildcard (allowed: "AB*", not allowed "?23"). deprecated: true schema: type: array description: |- Filters the response for order(s) with a specific orderDocumentNo. You can provide multiple parameters with the same name, e.g., ?orderDocumentNo=123*&orderDocumentNo=ABCD. In this case, the conditions are linked with OR (find all orders where orderDocumentNo starts with 123 or is ABCD). This parameter is deprecated, please use the `documentNumber` parameter instead. The following wildcards can be used: - ? - only one character - \* - multiple characters (any string) Restrictions: - The wildcards cannot be used alone (without any other string). - The search string must not start with a wildcard (allowed: "AB*", not allowed "?23"). example: ORDER00001 items: type: string example: ORDER00001 - name: customerOrderId in: query description: |- Filters the response for order(s) with a specific customerOrderId. You can provide multiple parameters with the same name, e.g., ?customerOrderId=123?&customerOrderId=ABCD. In this case, the conditions are linked with OR (find all orders where customerOrderId starts with 123 or is ABCD). This parameter is deprecated, please use the `customerOrderID` parameter instead. The following wildcards can be used: - ? - only one character - \* - multiple characters (any string) Restrictions: - The wildcards cannot be used alone (without any other string). - The search string must not start with a wildcard (allowed: "AB*", not allowed "?23"). deprecated: true schema: type: array description: |- Filters the response for order(s) with a specific customerOrderId. You can provide multiple parameters with the same name, e.g., ?customerOrderId=123?&customerOrderId=ABCD. In this case, the conditions are linked with OR (find all orders where customerOrderId starts with 123 or is ABCD). This parameter is deprecated, please use the `customerOrderID` parameter instead. The following wildcards can be used: - ? - only one character - \* - multiple characters (any string) Restrictions: - The wildcards cannot be used alone (without any other string). - The search string must not start with a wildcard (allowed: "AB*", not allowed "?23"). example: Customer0011 items: type: string example: Customer0011 - name: creationFromDate in: query description: "Filters the response for orders created as of a specified creationFromDate.\ \ Pattern: yyyy-MM-dd. This parameter is deprecated, please use the `creationDateFrom`\ \ parameter instead." deprecated: true schema: type: string description: "Filters the response for orders created as of a specified\ \ creationFromDate. Pattern: yyyy-MM-dd. This parameter is deprecated,\ \ please use the `creationDateFrom` parameter instead." example: 2023-01-31 example: 2023-01-31 - name: creationToDate in: query description: "Filters the response for orders created up to a specified creationToDate.\ \ Pattern: yyyy-MM-dd. This parameter is deprecated, please use the `creationDateTo`\ \ parameter instead." deprecated: true schema: type: string description: "Filters the response for orders created up to a specified\ \ creationToDate. Pattern: yyyy-MM-dd. This parameter is deprecated, please\ \ use the `creationDateTo` parameter instead." example: 2023-12-24 example: 2023-12-24 - name: documentNumber in: query description: |- Filters the response for order(s) with a specific documentNumber. You can provide multiple parameters with the same name, e.g., ?documentNumber=123*&documentNumber=ABCD. In this case, the conditions are linked with OR (find all orders where documentNumber starts with 123 or is ABCD). If set, it overwrites the old `orderDocumentNo` parameter. The following wildcards can be used: - ? - only one character - \* - multiple characters (any string) Restrictions: - The wildcards cannot be used alone (without any other string). - The search string must not start with a wildcard (allowed: "AB*", not allowed "?23"). schema: type: array description: |- Filters the response for order(s) with a specific documentNumber. You can provide multiple parameters with the same name, e.g., ?documentNumber=123*&documentNumber=ABCD. In this case, the conditions are linked with OR (find all orders where documentNumber starts with 123 or is ABCD). If set, it overwrites the old `orderDocumentNo` parameter. The following wildcards can be used: - ? - only one character - \* - multiple characters (any string) Restrictions: - The wildcards cannot be used alone (without any other string). - The search string must not start with a wildcard (allowed: "AB*", not allowed "?23"). example: ORDER00001 items: type: string example: ORDER00001 - name: customerOrderID in: query description: |- Filters the response for order(s) with a specific customerOrderID. You can provide multiple parameters with the same name, e.g., ?customerOrderID=123?&customerOrderID=ABCD. In this case, the conditions are linked with OR (find all orders where customerOrderId starts with 123 or is ABCD). If set, it overwrites the old `customerOrderId` parameter. The following wildcards can be used: - ? - only one character - \* - multiple characters (any string) Restrictions: - The wildcards cannot be used alone (without any other string). - The search string must not start with a wildcard (allowed: "AB*", not allowed "?23"). schema: type: array description: |- Filters the response for order(s) with a specific customerOrderID. You can provide multiple parameters with the same name, e.g., ?customerOrderID=123?&customerOrderID=ABCD. In this case, the conditions are linked with OR (find all orders where customerOrderId starts with 123 or is ABCD). If set, it overwrites the old `customerOrderId` parameter. The following wildcards can be used: - ? - only one character - \* - multiple characters (any string) Restrictions: - The wildcards cannot be used alone (without any other string). - The search string must not start with a wildcard (allowed: "AB*", not allowed "?23"). example: Customer0011 items: type: string example: Customer0011 - name: creationDateFrom in: query description: "Filters the response for orders created as of a specified creationDateFrom.\ \ Pattern: yyyy-MM-dd. If set, it overwrites the old `creationFromDate`\ \ parameter." schema: type: string description: "Filters the response for orders created as of a specified\ \ creationDateFrom. Pattern: yyyy-MM-dd. If set, it overwrites the old\ \ `creationFromDate` parameter." example: 2023-01-31 example: 2023-01-31 - name: creationDateTo in: query description: "Filters the response for orders created up to a specified creationDateTo.\ \ Pattern: yyyy-MM-dd. If set, it overwrites the old `creationToDate` parameter." schema: type: string description: "Filters the response for orders created up to a specified\ \ creationDateTo. Pattern: yyyy-MM-dd. If set, it overwrites the old `creationToDate`\ \ parameter." example: 2023-12-24 example: 2023-12-24 - name: lineItem_product in: query description: |- Filters the response for order(s) that contain line items with a specific product id. You can provide multiple parameters with the same name, e.g., ?lineItem_product=943*?&lineItem_product=5079747. In this case, the conditions are linked with OR (find all orders where a line item is included whose product id starts with 943 or is 5079747). The following wildcards can be used: - ? - only one character - \* - multiple characters (any string) Restrictions: - The wildcards cannot be used alone (without any other string). - The search string must not start with a wildcard (allowed: "AB*", not allowed "?23"). schema: type: array description: |- Filters the response for order(s) that contain line items with a specific product id. You can provide multiple parameters with the same name, e.g., ?lineItem_product=943*?&lineItem_product=5079747. In this case, the conditions are linked with OR (find all orders where a line item is included whose product id starts with 943 or is 5079747). The following wildcards can be used: - ? - only one character - \* - multiple characters (any string) Restrictions: - The wildcards cannot be used alone (without any other string). - The search string must not start with a wildcard (allowed: "AB*", not allowed "?23"). example: "9438012" items: type: string example: "9438012" - name: lineItem_customerProductID in: query description: |- Filters the response for order(s) that contain line items with a specific customerProductID. You can provide multiple parameters with the same name, e.g., ?lineItem_customerProductID=A1*?&lineItem_customerProductID=A45CE5. In this case, the conditions are linked with OR (find all orders where a line item is included whose customerProductID starts with A1 or is A45CE5). The following wildcards can be used: - ? - only one character - \* - multiple characters (any string) Restrictions: - The wildcards cannot be used alone (without any other string). - The search string must not start with a wildcard (allowed: "AB*", not allowed "?23"). schema: type: array description: |- Filters the response for order(s) that contain line items with a specific customerProductID. You can provide multiple parameters with the same name, e.g., ?lineItem_customerProductID=A1*?&lineItem_customerProductID=A45CE5. In this case, the conditions are linked with OR (find all orders where a line item is included whose customerProductID starts with A1 or is A45CE5). The following wildcards can be used: - ? - only one character - \* - multiple characters (any string) Restrictions: - The wildcards cannot be used alone (without any other string). - The search string must not start with a wildcard (allowed: "AB*", not allowed "?23"). example: A45CE5 items: type: string example: A45CE5 - name: lineItem_partialOrderNo in: query description: |- Filters the response for order(s) that contain line items with a specific partialOrderNo. You can provide multiple parameters with the same name, e.g., ?lineItem_partialOrderNo=123*?&lineItem_partialOrderNo=343456. In this case, the conditions are linked with OR (find all orders where a line item is included whose partialOrderNo starts with 123 or is 343456). The following wildcards can be used: - ? - only one character - \* - multiple characters (any string) Restrictions: - The wildcards cannot be used alone (without any other string). - The search string must not start with a wildcard (allowed: "AB*", not allowed "?23"). schema: type: array description: |- Filters the response for order(s) that contain line items with a specific partialOrderNo. You can provide multiple parameters with the same name, e.g., ?lineItem_partialOrderNo=123*?&lineItem_partialOrderNo=343456. In this case, the conditions are linked with OR (find all orders where a line item is included whose partialOrderNo starts with 123 or is 343456). The following wildcards can be used: - ? - only one character - \* - multiple characters (any string) Restrictions: - The wildcards cannot be used alone (without any other string). - The search string must not start with a wildcard (allowed: "AB*", not allowed "?23"). example: "343456" items: type: string example: "343456" - name: buyer in: query description: |- Filters the response for order(s) belonging to a specific user by their BusinessPartnerNo. You can provide multiple parameters with the same name, for example, `?buyer=pmiller&buyer=jlink`. In this case, the conditions are linked with OR (find all orders where the `buyerNo` attribute has the value either 'pmiller' or 'jlink'). The filter is only available in a B2B context and is ignored in B2C. In addition, the caller needs the APP_B2B_MANAGE_ORDERS authorization to use this filter. schema: type: array description: |- Filters the response for order(s) belonging to a specific user by their BusinessPartnerNo. You can provide multiple parameters with the same name, for example, `?buyer=pmiller&buyer=jlink`. In this case, the conditions are linked with OR (find all orders where the `buyerNo` attribute has the value either 'pmiller' or 'jlink'). The filter is only available in a B2B context and is ignored in B2C. In addition, the caller needs the APP_B2B_MANAGE_ORDERS authorization to use this filter. example: pmiller@test.intershop.de items: type: string example: pmiller@test.intershop.de - name: allBuyers in: query description: |- If true, this parameter returns all orders from the customer. The filter is only available in a B2B context and is ignored in B2C. In addition, the caller needs the APP_B2B_MANAGE_ORDERS authorization to use this filter. schema: type: boolean description: |- If true, this parameter returns all orders from the customer. The filter is only available in a B2B context and is ignored in B2C. In addition, the caller needs the APP_B2B_MANAGE_ORDERS authorization to use this filter. example: true default: false example: "true" responses: "200": description: The list of orders. content: application/vnd.intershop.order.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderListCtnrRO_v1" "401": $ref: "#/components/responses/401" "422": description: "There were semantic errors in the request, for example, an\ \ invalid status code filter." content: application/vnd.intershop.order.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderListCtnrRO_v1" security: - bearerAuth: [] x-origin-method: "public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.order.OrderListResource.getOrders_V1(java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.lang.Integer,java.lang.Integer,java.lang.Integer,java.util.List,java.util.List,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.util.List,java.util.List,java.lang.String,java.lang.String,java.util.List,java.util.List,java.util.List,java.util.List,java.lang.Boolean)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.order.OrderListResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[((NOT isAuthenticated[Organization] OR isCustomerType)\ \ OR hasPermission[Organization:APP_B2B_PURCHASE])]" post: tags: - General summary: Creates a new order for the user from a given basket. description: "This operation creates a new order for the user from a given basket.\ \ If the basket is not valid or there are other errors during order creation,\ \ then status 422 is returned along with a description of the cause. If user\ \ authentication fails, a 401 error with body string 'Unauthorized' is returned." operationId: createOrder_V1 parameters: - name: include in: query description: Related objects (as a comma-separated list) which are to be included with the response. style: form explode: false schema: type: array description: Related objects (as a comma-separated list) which are to be included with the response. items: type: string enum: - all - buckets - buckets_discounts - buckets_shipToAddress - buckets_shippingMethod - buyingContext - commonShipToAddress - commonShippingMethod - discounts - discounts_promotion - invoiceToAddress - lineItems - lineItems_discounts - lineItems_product - lineItems_shipToAddress - lineItems_shippingMethod - lineItems_warranty - payments - payments_paymentInstrument - payments_paymentMethod x-supported-include-type: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resourceobject.order.OrderRO x-include-type-lineItems_product: OrderProductRO_v1 x-include-type-payments_paymentInstrument: PaymentInstrumentRO_v1 x-include-type-lineItems_shippingMethod: OrderShippingMethodRO_v1 x-include-type-commonShippingMethod: OrderShippingMethodRO_v1 x-include-type-buckets: OrderShippingBucketRO_v1 x-include-type-payments: PaymentRO_v1 x-include-type-commonShipToAddress: AddressRO_v1 x-include-type-buckets_shippingMethod: OrderShippingMethodRO_v1 x-include-type-buckets_discounts: OrderDiscountRO_v1 x-include-type-lineItems_shipToAddress: AddressRO_v1 x-include-type-lineItems: OrderLineItemRO_v1 x-include-type-buyingContext: BuyingContextRO_v1 x-include-type-discounts: OrderDiscountRO_v1 x-include-type-lineItems_discounts: OrderDiscountRO_v1 x-include-type-discounts_promotion: OrderPromotionRO_v1 x-include-type-payments_paymentMethod: PaymentMethodRO_v1 x-include-type-invoiceToAddress: AddressRO_v1 x-include-type-buckets_shipToAddress: AddressRO_v1 x-include-type-lineItems_warranty: OrderWarrantyRO_v1 requestBody: description: The object containing the required data for the order creation. content: application/json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderRO_v1" responses: "201": description: The created order if the process finished successfully. content: application/vnd.intershop.order.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderCtnrRO_v1" "202": description: "The order creation was successfully started, but additional\ \ steps need to be performed before the order creation is finished (for\ \ example, a redirect to the payment service provider, order approval,\ \ etc.). Depending on the state of the order creation, further actions\ \ could include changing to a different resource with a provided link\ \ (for example, for order approval switching to \"Requisition\" resource),\ \ a \"PATCH\" request on the order item resource to continue the order\ \ creation process or others." content: application/vnd.intershop.order.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderCtnrRO_v1" "401": $ref: "#/components/responses/401" "422": description: The order could not be created because of semantic errors. content: application/vnd.intershop.order.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderCtnrRO_v1" security: - bearerAuth: [] x-origin-method: "public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.order.OrderListResource.createOrder_V1(com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resourceobject.order.OrderRO,java.lang.String)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.order.OrderListResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[((NOT isAuthenticated[Organization] OR isCustomerType)\ \ OR hasPermission[Organization:APP_B2B_PURCHASE])]" /orders/{orderKey}: get: tags: - General summary: ' Returns the order with the given ID.' description: "This operation returns the order with the given ID for the user.\ \ If no order with this ID is found, a 404 error will be returned. If user\ \ authentication fails, a 401 error with body string 'Unauthorized' is returned.\ \ Error 403 is returned, if the user does not have the required access privileges.\ \ Error 410 is returned, if the order is aborted due to a canceled payment." operationId: getOrder_V1 parameters: - name: include in: query description: "Related objects (as a comma-separated list) which are to be\ \ included with the response. Instead of listing several includes individually,\ \ \"all\" can be used to enclose all first-level includes." style: form explode: false schema: type: array description: "Related objects (as a comma-separated list) which are to be\ \ included with the response. Instead of listing several includes individually,\ \ \"all\" can be used to enclose all first-level includes." items: type: string enum: - all - buckets - buckets_discounts - buckets_shipToAddress - buckets_shippingMethod - buyingContext - commonShipToAddress - commonShippingMethod - discounts - discounts_promotion - invoiceToAddress - lineItems - lineItems_discounts - lineItems_product - lineItems_shipToAddress - lineItems_shippingMethod - lineItems_warranty - payments - payments_paymentInstrument - payments_paymentMethod x-supported-include-type: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resourceobject.order.OrderRO x-include-type-lineItems_product: OrderProductRO_v1 x-include-type-payments_paymentInstrument: PaymentInstrumentRO_v1 x-include-type-lineItems_shippingMethod: OrderShippingMethodRO_v1 x-include-type-commonShippingMethod: OrderShippingMethodRO_v1 x-include-type-buckets: OrderShippingBucketRO_v1 x-include-type-payments: PaymentRO_v1 x-include-type-commonShipToAddress: AddressRO_v1 x-include-type-buckets_shippingMethod: OrderShippingMethodRO_v1 x-include-type-buckets_discounts: OrderDiscountRO_v1 x-include-type-lineItems_shipToAddress: AddressRO_v1 x-include-type-lineItems: OrderLineItemRO_v1 x-include-type-buyingContext: BuyingContextRO_v1 x-include-type-discounts: OrderDiscountRO_v1 x-include-type-lineItems_discounts: OrderDiscountRO_v1 x-include-type-discounts_promotion: OrderPromotionRO_v1 x-include-type-payments_paymentMethod: PaymentMethodRO_v1 x-include-type-invoiceToAddress: AddressRO_v1 x-include-type-buckets_shipToAddress: AddressRO_v1 x-include-type-lineItems_warranty: OrderWarrantyRO_v1 - name: orderKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.order.OrderListResource responses: "200": description: The order with the given ID. content: application/vnd.intershop.order.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderCtnrRO_v1" "404": description: No order could be found. content: application/vnd.intershop.order.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderCtnrRO_v1" "401": $ref: "#/components/responses/401" "403": $ref: "#/components/responses/403" "410": description: The order has been aborted due to a canceled payment. content: application/vnd.intershop.order.v1+json: schema: type: string security: - bearerAuth: [] x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.order.OrderItemResource.getOrder_V1(java.lang.String) x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.order.OrderItemResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[((NOT isAuthenticated[Organization] OR isCustomerType)\ \ OR hasPermission[Organization:APP_B2B_PURCHASE])]" patch: tags: - General summary: ' Updates the order with the given ID.' description: "This operation updates the order with the given ID. This is currently\ \ only used to continue an interrupted order creation process (for example\ \ because of a payment which required a redirect) by setting the \"orderCreation.status\"\ \ field to \"CONTINUE\". If there are errors during the continued order process,\ \ status 422 with an appropriate cause description is returned. If no order\ \ with this ID is found for the user, a 404 error will be returned. If the\ \ user authentication fails, a 401 error with body string \"Unauthorized\"\ \ is returned." operationId: updateOrder_V1 parameters: - name: include in: query description: "Related objects (as a comma-separated list) which are to be\ \ included with the response. Instead of listing several includes individually,\ \ \"all\" can be used to enclose all first-level includes." style: form explode: false schema: type: array description: "Related objects (as a comma-separated list) which are to be\ \ included with the response. Instead of listing several includes individually,\ \ \"all\" can be used to enclose all first-level includes." items: type: string enum: - all - buckets - buckets_discounts - buckets_shipToAddress - buckets_shippingMethod - buyingContext - commonShipToAddress - commonShippingMethod - discounts - discounts_promotion - invoiceToAddress - lineItems - lineItems_discounts - lineItems_product - lineItems_shipToAddress - lineItems_shippingMethod - lineItems_warranty - payments - payments_paymentInstrument - payments_paymentMethod x-supported-include-type: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resourceobject.order.OrderRO x-include-type-lineItems_product: OrderProductRO_v1 x-include-type-payments_paymentInstrument: PaymentInstrumentRO_v1 x-include-type-lineItems_shippingMethod: OrderShippingMethodRO_v1 x-include-type-commonShippingMethod: OrderShippingMethodRO_v1 x-include-type-buckets: OrderShippingBucketRO_v1 x-include-type-payments: PaymentRO_v1 x-include-type-commonShipToAddress: AddressRO_v1 x-include-type-buckets_shippingMethod: OrderShippingMethodRO_v1 x-include-type-buckets_discounts: OrderDiscountRO_v1 x-include-type-lineItems_shipToAddress: AddressRO_v1 x-include-type-lineItems: OrderLineItemRO_v1 x-include-type-buyingContext: BuyingContextRO_v1 x-include-type-discounts: OrderDiscountRO_v1 x-include-type-lineItems_discounts: OrderDiscountRO_v1 x-include-type-discounts_promotion: OrderPromotionRO_v1 x-include-type-payments_paymentMethod: PaymentMethodRO_v1 x-include-type-invoiceToAddress: AddressRO_v1 x-include-type-buckets_shipToAddress: AddressRO_v1 x-include-type-lineItems_warranty: OrderWarrantyRO_v1 - name: orderKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.order.OrderListResource requestBody: description: The object containing the data to update the order with the given ID. content: application/json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderRO_v1" responses: "200": description: The updated order if the order process is completed. content: application/vnd.intershop.order.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderCtnrRO_v1" "202": description: "The order process has been continued, but there are additional\ \ steps to be performed by the client before the order creation can be\ \ completed (for example another redirect to a different payment service\ \ provider)." content: application/vnd.intershop.order.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderCtnrRO_v1" "422": description: The order could not be updated because of semantical errors. content: application/vnd.intershop.order.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderCtnrRO_v1" "404": description: An order with the given ID could not be found in the list of user orders. content: application/vnd.intershop.order.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderCtnrRO_v1" "401": $ref: "#/components/responses/401" security: - bearerAuth: [] x-origin-method: "public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.order.OrderItemResource.updateOrder_V1(com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resourceobject.order.OrderRO,java.lang.String)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.order.OrderItemResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[((NOT isAuthenticated[Organization] OR isCustomerType)\ \ OR hasPermission[Organization:APP_B2B_PURCHASE])]" /orders/{orderKey}/attributes: get: tags: - General summary: ' Returns (custom) attributes for the order.' description: This operation returns (custom) attributes for the order. operationId: getOrderAttributes_V1 parameters: - name: include in: query description: "Related objects (as a comma-separated list) which are to be\ \ included with the response. Instead of listing several includes individually,\ \ \"all\" can be used to enclose all first-level includes." schema: type: string description: "Related objects (as a comma-separated list) which are to be\ \ included with the response. Instead of listing several includes individually,\ \ \"all\" can be used to enclose all first-level includes." default: "" x-supported-include-type: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.v1.capi.resourceobject.attribute.AttributeRO - name: orderKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.order.OrderListResource responses: "200": description: The list of attributes. content: application/vnd.intershop.order.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeListCtnrRO_v1" security: - bearerAuth: [] x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.attribute.OrderAttributeListResource.getAttributes_V1(java.lang.String) x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.attribute.OrderAttributeListResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[((NOT isAuthenticated[Organization] OR isCustomerType)\ \ OR hasPermission[Organization:APP_B2B_PURCHASE])]" post: tags: - General summary: ' Creates a new (custom) attribute at the order.' description: "This operation creates a new (custom) attribute at the order.\ \ The name of the attribute is used as identifier for the created sub resource.\ \ If an attribute with this name already exists or if an unknown type is passed\ \ or the value does not match the type, error 422 will be returned." operationId: createOrderAttribute_V1 parameters: - name: include in: query description: "Related objects (as a comma-separated list) which are to be\ \ included with the response. Instead of listing several includes individually,\ \ \"all\" can be used to enclose all first-level includes." schema: type: string description: "Related objects (as a comma-separated list) which are to be\ \ included with the response. Instead of listing several includes individually,\ \ \"all\" can be used to enclose all first-level includes." default: "" x-supported-include-type: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.v1.capi.resourceobject.attribute.AttributeRO - name: orderKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.order.OrderListResource requestBody: description: The object containing the attribute data. content: application/json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeRO_v1" responses: "201": description: The created attribute. content: application/vnd.intershop.order.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeCtnrRO_v1" "422": description: The attribute could not be created because of semantic errors in the passed data. content: application/vnd.intershop.order.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeCtnrRO_v1" security: - bearerAuth: [] x-origin-method: "public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.attribute.OrderAttributeListResource.createAttribute_V1(com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.v1.capi.resourceobject.attribute.AttributeRO,java.lang.String)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.attribute.OrderAttributeListResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[((NOT isAuthenticated[Organization] OR isCustomerType)\ \ OR hasPermission[Organization:APP_B2B_PURCHASE])]" /orders/{orderKey}/buckets: get: tags: - Shipping Bucket summary: ' Returns the list of shipping buckets for the selected order.' description: This operation returns the list of shipping buckets for the selected order. Note that buckets are built dynamically and are not persisted. Bucket assignments and IDs could change if items are moved to a different bucket (by changing ship-to address or shipping method of a line item). It is therefore recommended to always retrieve the list of buckets before performing any operation on a single bucket. operationId: getShippingBuckets_V1 parameters: - name: include in: query description: "Related objects (as a comma-separated list) which are to be\ \ included with the response. Instead of listing several includes individually,\ \ \"all\" can be used to enclose all first-level includes." style: form explode: false schema: type: array description: "Related objects (as a comma-separated list) which are to be\ \ included with the response. Instead of listing several includes individually,\ \ \"all\" can be used to enclose all first-level includes." items: type: string enum: - all - discounts - discounts_promotion - shipToAddress - shippingMethod x-supported-include-type: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resourceobject.shipping.ShippingBucketRO x-include-type-shipToAddress: AddressRO_v1 x-include-type-discounts: OrderDiscountRO_v1 x-include-type-shippingMethod: OrderShippingMethodRO_v1 x-include-type-discounts_promotion: OrderPromotionRO_v1 - name: orderKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.order.OrderListResource responses: "200": description: The list of shipping buckets. content: application/vnd.intershop.order.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderShippingBucketListCtnrRO_v1" "401": $ref: "#/components/responses/401" security: - bearerAuth: [] x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.shipping.ShippingBucketListResource.getShippingBuckets_V1(java.lang.String) x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.shipping.ShippingBucketListResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[((NOT isAuthenticated[Organization] OR isCustomerType)\ \ OR hasPermission[Organization:APP_B2B_PURCHASE])]" /orders/{orderKey}/buckets/{ShippingBucketKey}: get: tags: - Shipping Bucket summary: ' Returns the shipping bucket with the given ID.' description: "This operation returns the shipping bucket with the given ID.\ \ If no shipping bucket with this ID is found, a 404 error will be returned.\ \ Note that this could also mean that items have been added or removed from\ \ the bucket, as buckets are not persisted and IDs are determined dynamically\ \ through a hash over all items in the bucket. If such changes occur, the\ \ shipping bucket list needs to be retrieved again before working on single\ \ buckets." operationId: getShippingBucket_V1 parameters: - name: include in: query description: "Related objects (as a comma-separated list) which are to be\ \ included with the response. Instead of listing several includes individually,\ \ \"all\" can be used to enclose all first-level includes." style: form explode: false schema: type: array description: "Related objects (as a comma-separated list) which are to be\ \ included with the response. Instead of listing several includes individually,\ \ \"all\" can be used to enclose all first-level includes." items: type: string enum: - all - discounts - discounts_promotion - shipToAddress - shippingMethod x-supported-include-type: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resourceobject.shipping.ShippingBucketRO x-include-type-shipToAddress: AddressRO_v1 x-include-type-discounts: OrderDiscountRO_v1 x-include-type-shippingMethod: OrderShippingMethodRO_v1 x-include-type-discounts_promotion: OrderPromotionRO_v1 - name: orderKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.order.OrderListResource - name: ShippingBucketKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.shipping.ShippingBucketListResource responses: "200": description: The shipping bucket. content: application/vnd.intershop.order.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderShippingBucketCtnrRO_v1" "404": description: A shipping bucket with the given ID could not be found in the order. content: application/vnd.intershop.order.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderShippingBucketCtnrRO_v1" "401": $ref: "#/components/responses/401" security: - bearerAuth: [] x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.shipping.ShippingBucketItemResource.getShippingBucket_V1(java.lang.String) x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.shipping.ShippingBucketItemResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[((NOT isAuthenticated[Organization] OR isCustomerType)\ \ OR hasPermission[Organization:APP_B2B_PURCHASE])]" /orders/{orderKey}/items: get: tags: - Line Item summary: ' Returns the list of line items for the selected order.' description: This operation returns the list of line items for the selected order. operationId: getLineItems_V1 parameters: - name: include in: query description: "Related objects (as a comma-separated list) which are to be\ \ included with the response. Instead of listing several includes individually,\ \ \"all\" can be used to enclose all first-level includes." style: form explode: false schema: type: array description: "Related objects (as a comma-separated list) which are to be\ \ included with the response. Instead of listing several includes individually,\ \ \"all\" can be used to enclose all first-level includes." items: type: string enum: - all - discounts - discounts_promotion - product - shipToAddress - shippingMethod - warranty x-supported-include-type: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resourceobject.lineitem.LineItemRO x-include-type-shipToAddress: AddressRO_v1 x-include-type-warranty: OrderWarrantyRO_v1 x-include-type-product: OrderProductRO_v1 x-include-type-discounts: OrderDiscountRO_v1 x-include-type-shippingMethod: OrderShippingMethodRO_v1 x-include-type-discounts_promotion: OrderPromotionRO_v1 - name: orderKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.order.OrderListResource responses: "200": description: The list of line items. content: application/vnd.intershop.order.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderLineItemListCtnrRO_v1" "401": $ref: "#/components/responses/401" security: - bearerAuth: [] x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.lineitem.LineItemListResource.getLineItems_V1(java.lang.String) x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.lineitem.LineItemListResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[((NOT isAuthenticated[Organization] OR isCustomerType)\ \ OR hasPermission[Organization:APP_B2B_PURCHASE])]" /orders/{orderKey}/items/{LineItemKey}: get: tags: - Line Item summary: ' Returns the line item for the given ID.' description: "This operation returns the line item for the given ID. If no line\ \ item with this ID is found, a 404 error will be returned. " operationId: getLineItem_V1 parameters: - name: include in: query description: "Related objects (as a comma-separated list) which are to be\ \ included with the response. Instead of listing several includes individually,\ \ \"all\" can be used to enclose all first-level includes." style: form explode: false schema: type: array description: "Related objects (as a comma-separated list) which are to be\ \ included with the response. Instead of listing several includes individually,\ \ \"all\" can be used to enclose all first-level includes." items: type: string enum: - all - discounts - discounts_promotion - product - shipToAddress - shippingMethod - warranty x-supported-include-type: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resourceobject.lineitem.LineItemRO x-include-type-shipToAddress: AddressRO_v1 x-include-type-warranty: OrderWarrantyRO_v1 x-include-type-product: OrderProductRO_v1 x-include-type-discounts: OrderDiscountRO_v1 x-include-type-shippingMethod: OrderShippingMethodRO_v1 x-include-type-discounts_promotion: OrderPromotionRO_v1 - name: orderKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.order.OrderListResource - name: LineItemKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.lineitem.LineItemListResource responses: "200": description: Information message describing success status. content: application/vnd.intershop.order.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderLineItemCtnrRO_v1" "404": description: A line item with the given ID could not be found in the order. content: application/vnd.intershop.order.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderLineItemCtnrRO_v1" security: - bearerAuth: [] x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.lineitem.LineItemItemResource.getLineItem_V1(java.lang.String) x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.lineitem.LineItemItemResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[((NOT isAuthenticated[Organization] OR isCustomerType)\ \ OR hasPermission[Organization:APP_B2B_PURCHASE])]" /orders/{orderKey}/items/{LineItemKey}/attributes: get: tags: - Line Item summary: ' Returns (custom) attributes for the line item.' description: This operation returns (custom) attributes for the line item. operationId: getLineItemAttributes_V1 parameters: - name: include in: query description: "Related objects (as a comma-separated list) which are to be\ \ included with the response. Instead of listing several includes individually,\ \ \"all\" can be used to enclose all first-level includes." schema: type: string description: "Related objects (as a comma-separated list) which are to be\ \ included with the response. Instead of listing several includes individually,\ \ \"all\" can be used to enclose all first-level includes." default: "" x-supported-include-type: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.v1.capi.resourceobject.attribute.AttributeRO - name: orderKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.order.OrderListResource - name: LineItemKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.lineitem.LineItemListResource responses: "200": description: The list of attributes. content: application/vnd.intershop.order.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeListCtnrRO_v1" security: - bearerAuth: [] x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.attribute.LineItemAttributeListResource.getAttributes_V1(java.lang.String) x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.attribute.LineItemAttributeListResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[((NOT isAuthenticated[Organization] OR isCustomerType)\ \ OR hasPermission[Organization:APP_B2B_PURCHASE])]" post: tags: - Line Item summary: ' Creates a new (custom) attribute at the line item.' description: "This operation creates a new (custom) attribute at the line item.\ \ The name of the attribute is used as identifier for the created sub resource.\ \ If an attribute with this name already exists or if an unknown type is passed\ \ or the value does not match the type, error 422 will be returned." operationId: createLineItemAttribute_V1 parameters: - name: include in: query description: "Related objects (as a comma-separated list) which are to be\ \ included with the response. Instead of listing several includes individually,\ \ \"all\" can be used to enclose all first-level includes." schema: type: string description: "Related objects (as a comma-separated list) which are to be\ \ included with the response. Instead of listing several includes individually,\ \ \"all\" can be used to enclose all first-level includes." default: "" x-supported-include-type: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.v1.capi.resourceobject.attribute.AttributeRO - name: orderKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.order.OrderListResource - name: LineItemKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.lineitem.LineItemListResource requestBody: description: The object containing the attribute data. content: application/json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeRO_v1" responses: "201": description: The created attribute. content: application/vnd.intershop.order.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeCtnrRO_v1" "422": description: The attribute could not be created because of semantic errors in the passed data. content: application/vnd.intershop.order.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeCtnrRO_v1" security: - bearerAuth: [] x-origin-method: "public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.attribute.LineItemAttributeListResource.createAttribute_V1(com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.v1.capi.resourceobject.attribute.AttributeRO,java.lang.String)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.attribute.LineItemAttributeListResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[((NOT isAuthenticated[Organization] OR isCustomerType)\ \ OR hasPermission[Organization:APP_B2B_PURCHASE])]" /orders/{orderKey}/payments: get: tags: - Payment summary: ' Returns the list of payments assigned to the order.' description: This operation returns the list of payments assigned to the order. operationId: getPayments_V1 parameters: - name: include in: query description: "Related objects (as a comma-separated list) which are to be\ \ included with the response. Instead of listing several includes individually,\ \ \"all\" can be used to enclose all first-level includes." style: form explode: false schema: type: array description: "Related objects (as a comma-separated list) which are to be\ \ included with the response. Instead of listing several includes individually,\ \ \"all\" can be used to enclose all first-level includes." items: type: string enum: - all - paymentInstrument - paymentInstrument_paymentMethod - paymentMethod - paymentMethod_paymentInstruments x-supported-include-type: com.intershop.sellside.rest.payment.v1.capi.resourceobject.payment.PaymentRO x-include-type-paymentMethod: PaymentMethodRO_v1 x-include-type-paymentInstrument: PaymentInstrumentRO_v1 x-include-type-paymentInstrument_paymentMethod: PaymentMethodRO_v1 x-include-type-paymentMethod_paymentInstruments: PaymentInstrumentRO_v1 - name: orderKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.order.OrderListResource responses: "200": description: The list of payments. content: application/vnd.intershop.order.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PaymentCtnrRO_v1" "401": $ref: "#/components/responses/401" security: - bearerAuth: [] x-origin-method: public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.payment.PaymentListResource.getPayments_V1(java.lang.String) x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.payment.PaymentListResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[((NOT isAuthenticated[Organization] OR isCustomerType)\ \ OR hasPermission[Organization:APP_B2B_PURCHASE])]" /orders/{orderKey}/payments/{PaymentKey}: patch: tags: - Payment summary: ' Updates the payment.' description: "Updates the payment. If the payment could not be updated, a 422\ \ error will be returned. Note that this will only allow to set/update redirect\ \ data, e.g. the return URLS'. Other changes are not supported and will be\ \ ignored." operationId: updatePayment_V1 parameters: - name: include in: query description: "Related objects (as a comma-separated list) which are to be\ \ included with the response. Instead of listing several includes individually,\ \ \"all\" can be used to enclose all first-level includes." style: form explode: false schema: type: array description: "Related objects (as a comma-separated list) which are to be\ \ included with the response. Instead of listing several includes individually,\ \ \"all\" can be used to enclose all first-level includes." items: type: string enum: - all - paymentInstrument - paymentInstrument_paymentMethod - paymentMethod - paymentMethod_paymentInstruments x-supported-include-type: com.intershop.sellside.rest.payment.v1.capi.resourceobject.payment.PaymentRO x-include-type-paymentMethod: PaymentMethodRO_v1 x-include-type-paymentInstrument: PaymentInstrumentRO_v1 x-include-type-paymentInstrument_paymentMethod: PaymentMethodRO_v1 x-include-type-paymentMethod_paymentInstruments: PaymentInstrumentRO_v1 - name: orderKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.order.OrderListResource - name: PaymentKey in: path description: The key or UUID to resolve a single item required: true schema: type: string example: ExampleKey x-item-key: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.payment.PaymentListResource requestBody: description: The object containing the updated redirect data for the payment. content: application/json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PaymentRO_v1" responses: "200": description: Information message describing success status. content: application/vnd.intershop.order.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PaymentCtnrRO_v1" "422": description: The payment could not be updated. content: application/vnd.intershop.order.v1+json: schema: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PaymentCtnrRO_v1" security: - bearerAuth: [] x-origin-method: "public jakarta.ws.rs.core.Response com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.payment.PaymentItemResource.updatePayment_V1(com.intershop.sellside.rest.payment.v1.capi.resourceobject.payment.PaymentRO,java.lang.String)" x-origin-class: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.payment.PaymentItemResource x-AuthorizationRule: "[((NOT isAuthenticated[Organization] OR isCustomerType)\ \ OR hasPermission[Organization:APP_B2B_PURCHASE])]" components: schemas: AttributeRO_v1: required: - name - type type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element type: type: string description: 'The type of the element. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate elements by their type. ' enum: - Boolean - Date - Decimal - Double - Integer - Long - Money - Quantity - String - Text - MultipleBoolean - MultipleDate - MultipleDecimal - MultipleDouble - MultipleInteger - MultipleLong - MultipleString value: type: object description: A representation of an attribute discriminator: propertyName: type mapping: Boolean: "#/components/schemas/BooleanAttributeRO_v1" Date: "#/components/schemas/DateAttributeRO_v1" Decimal: "#/components/schemas/DecimalAttributeRO_v1" Double: "#/components/schemas/DoubleAttributeRO_v1" Integer: "#/components/schemas/IntegerAttributeRO_v1" Long: "#/components/schemas/LongAttributeRO_v1" Money: "#/components/schemas/MoneyAttributeRO_v1" Quantity: "#/components/schemas/QuantityAttributeRO_v1" String: "#/components/schemas/StringAttributeRO_v1" Text: "#/components/schemas/TextAttributeRO_v1" MultipleBoolean: "#/components/schemas/MultipleBooleanAttributeRO_v1" MultipleDate: "#/components/schemas/MultipleDateAttributeRO_v1" MultipleDecimal: "#/components/schemas/MultipleDecimalAttributeRO_v1" MultipleDouble: "#/components/schemas/MultipleDoubleAttributeRO_v1" MultipleInteger: "#/components/schemas/MultipleIntegerAttributeRO_v1" MultipleLong: "#/components/schemas/MultipleLongAttributeRO_v1" MultipleString: "#/components/schemas/MultipleStringAttributeRO_v1" oneOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/BooleanAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/DateAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/DecimalAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/DoubleAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/IntegerAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LongAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/QuantityAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/StringAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/TextAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/MultipleBooleanAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/MultipleDateAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/MultipleDecimalAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/MultipleDoubleAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/MultipleIntegerAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/MultipleLongAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/MultipleStringAttributeRO_v1" BooleanAttributeRO_v1: required: - name - type - value type: object description: A representation of a boolean attribute allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeRO_v1Object" - type: object properties: value: type: boolean description: The boolean attribute value BooleanFieldRO: required: - name - type type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/CustomField_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: boolean description: The boolean value CustomField_v1: required: - name - type - value type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element value: type: object description: The value of the custom field. Must match the type of the custom field definition and cannot be changed afterwards type: type: string description: 'The type of the element. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate elements by their type. ' enum: - String - Date - Integer - Boolean description: __BETA__ | A representation of a custom field value discriminator: propertyName: type mapping: String: "#/components/schemas/StringAttributeRO_v1" Date: "#/components/schemas/DateFieldRO" Integer: "#/components/schemas/IntegerFieldRO" Boolean: "#/components/schemas/BooleanFieldRO" oneOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/StringFieldRO" DateAttributeRO_v1: required: - name - type - value type: object description: A representation of a date/time attribute allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeRO_v1Object" - type: object properties: value: type: string description: The date/time attribute value format: date-time example: 2020-05-23T13:23:45+02:00 DateFieldRO: required: - name - type type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/CustomField_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: string description: The date/time value format: date-time example: 2020-05-23T13:23:45+02:00 DecimalAttributeRO_v1: required: - name - type - value type: object description: A representation of a decimal attribute allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeRO_v1Object" - type: object properties: value: type: number description: The decimal attribute value DoubleAttributeRO_v1: required: - name - type - value type: object description: A representation of a double attribute allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeRO_v1Object" - type: object properties: value: type: number description: The double attribute value format: double FeedbackCauseRO_v1: title: FeedbackCauseRO_v1 required: - code - message type: object properties: code: type: string description: A unique identifier for this particular occurrence of the problem (may be used for localization on client-side) example: product.name.required.error message: type: string description: A human readable message in the request's locale example: The product name must be specified. parameters: type: object additionalProperties: type: object description: A map of several parameters that are used to assemble the message. description: A map of several parameters that are used to assemble the message paths: type: array description: "A collection of JSON paths to the associated entities. Unless\ \ otherwise specified, this always refers to the request entity." example: - "\"$.name (position: 1)\"" externalDocs: url: https://github.com/json-path/JsonPath items: type: string description: "A collection of JSON paths to the associated entities. If\ \ not otherwise specified, this always refers to the request entity." externalDocs: url: https://github.com/json-path/JsonPath description: A representation for the common feedback information FeedbackRO_v1: title: FeedbackRO_v1 required: - code - message type: object properties: causes: type: array description: A collection of errors/warnings/infos that caused the feedback items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackCauseRO_v1" code: type: string description: A unique identifier for this particular occurrence of the problem (may be used for localization on client-side) example: product.name.required.error message: type: string description: A human readable message in the request's locale example: The product name must be specified. parameters: type: object additionalProperties: type: object description: A map of several parameters that are used to assemble the message. description: A map of several parameters that are used to assemble the message paths: type: array description: "A collection of JSON paths to the associated entities. Unless\ \ otherwise specified, this always refers to the request entity." example: - "\"$.name (position: 1)\"" externalDocs: url: https://github.com/json-path/JsonPath items: type: string description: "A collection of JSON paths to the associated entities. If\ \ not otherwise specified, this always refers to the request entity." externalDocs: url: https://github.com/json-path/JsonPath status: type: string description: The HTTP status code that is applicable to this problem example: "422" description: An error or piece of information related to the current request readOnly: true IntegerAttributeRO_v1: required: - name - type - value type: object description: A representation of an integer attribute allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeRO_v1Object" - type: object properties: value: type: integer description: The integer attribute value format: int32 IntegerFieldRO: required: - name - type type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/CustomField_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: integer description: The integer value format: int32 JurisdictionRO_v1: type: object properties: id: type: string description: The jurisdiction ID example: CANADA level: type: string description: The level of the jurisdiction for which the tax is applied example: COUNTRY enum: - APO - BOROUGH - CITY - COUNTRY - COUNTY - DISTRICT - FPO - LOCAL_IMPROVEMENT_DISTRICT - PARISH - PROVINCE - SPECIAL_PURPOSE_DISTRICT - STATE - TERRITORY - TOWNSHIP - TRADE_BLOCK - TRANSIT_DISTRICT description: "Describes the jurisdiction, an area subject to its own distinct\ \ tax regulations,such as a municipality, city, county, or country" readOnly: true LongAttributeRO_v1: required: - name - type - value type: object description: A representation of a long attribute allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeRO_v1Object" - type: object properties: value: type: integer description: The long attribute value format: int64 MoneyAttributeRO_v1: required: - name - type - value type: object description: A representation of a money attribute allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeRO_v1Object" - type: object properties: value: $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1" MoneyRO_v1: title: MoneyRO_v1 type: object properties: currency: type: string description: Three-letter currency code (ISO 4217) of the monetary value example: USD value: type: number description: The monetary value example: 10.99 description: Describes a money object readOnly: true MultipleBooleanAttributeRO_v1: required: - name - type - value type: object description: A representation of a multiple boolean attribute allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeRO_v1Object" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The multiple boolean attribute value items: type: boolean description: The multiple boolean attribute value MultipleDateAttributeRO_v1: required: - name - type - value type: object description: A representation of a multiple date/time attribute allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeRO_v1Object" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The multiple date/time attribute value items: type: string description: The multiple date/time attribute value format: date-time MultipleDecimalAttributeRO_v1: required: - name - type - value type: object description: A representation of a multiple decimal attribute allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeRO_v1Object" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The multiple decimal attribute value items: type: number description: The multiple decimal attribute value MultipleDoubleAttributeRO_v1: required: - name - type - value type: object description: A representation of a multiple double attribute allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeRO_v1Object" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The multiple double attribute value items: type: number description: The multiple double attribute value format: double MultipleIntegerAttributeRO_v1: required: - name - type - value type: object description: A representation of a multiple integer attribute allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeRO_v1Object" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The multiple integer attribute value items: type: integer description: The multiple integer attribute value format: int32 MultipleLongAttributeRO_v1: required: - name - type - value type: object description: A representation of a multiple long attribute allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeRO_v1Object" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The multiple long attribute value items: type: integer description: The multiple long attribute value format: int64 MultipleStringAttributeRO_v1: required: - name - type - value type: object description: A representation of a multiple string attribute allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeRO_v1Object" - type: object properties: value: type: array description: The multiple string attribute value items: type: string description: The multiple string attribute value OrderCreationRO_v1: type: object properties: redirect: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PaymentRedirectRO_v1" status: type: string description: "Represents the status of the order creation process. If this\ \ returns \"COMPLETED\", then the order creation is finished. If this\ \ returns \"ROLLED_BACK\", then the order creation was unsuccessful (e.\ \ g. because of a failed or cancelled payment) and the order is rolled\ \ back and becomes inaccessible. If this returns \"STOPPED\", then the\ \ client needs to perform the action from the \"stopAction\" field first.\ \ Once done, the order creation can be continued by setting this to \"\ CONTINUE\". Passing other values than \"CONTINUE\" will result in an error." enum: - COMPLETED - STOPPED - ROLLED_BACK - CONTINUE default: CONTINUE stopAction: $ref: "#/components/schemas/StopActionRO_v1" description: A resource object containing data about an ongoing order creation process. Includes information about the status of the order creation and whether additional actions need to be performed before the order creation is finished (e. g. redirects to payment providers). OrderCtnrRO_v1: type: object properties: data: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderRO_v1" errors: type: array description: List of errors related to the request readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" included: type: object properties: lineItems_product: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderProductRO_v1" payments_paymentInstrument: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/PaymentInstrumentRO_v1" lineItems_shippingMethod: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderShippingMethodRO_v1" commonShippingMethod: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderShippingMethodRO_v1" buckets: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderShippingBucketRO_v1" payments: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/PaymentRO_v1" commonShipToAddress: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/AddressRO_v1" buckets_shippingMethod: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderShippingMethodRO_v1" buckets_discounts: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderDiscountRO_v1" lineItems_shipToAddress: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/AddressRO_v1" lineItems: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderLineItemRO_v1" buyingContext: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/BuyingContextRO_v1" discounts: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderDiscountRO_v1" lineItems_discounts: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderDiscountRO_v1" discounts_promotion: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderPromotionRO_v1" payments_paymentMethod: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/PaymentMethodRO_v1" invoiceToAddress: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/AddressRO_v1" buckets_shipToAddress: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/AddressRO_v1" lineItems_warranty: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderWarrantyRO_v1" description: Optionally included related data objects. Included via "include" query parameter. readOnly: true x-supported-include-type: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resourceobject.order.OrderRO infos: type: array description: "List of information related to the request (e.g., value adjustments)" readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" links: type: object additionalProperties: type: object description: Map of links to this and optionally included related data objects. The object in the "data" property is always referenced by the identifier "self". This identifier may also contain a list of URIs if the data block includes multiple elements. readOnly: true description: Map of links to this and optionally included related data objects. The object in the "data" property is always referenced by the identifier "self". This identifier may also contain a list of URIs if the data block includes multiple elements. readOnly: true OrderDiscountsRO_v1: type: object properties: freeGiftDiscounts: type: array description: The IDs of all free gift discounts granted on the order. readOnly: true items: type: string description: The IDs of all free gift discounts granted on the order. readOnly: true shippingBasedDiscounts: type: array description: The IDs of all discounts granted on shipping and handling costs. readOnly: true items: type: string description: The IDs of all discounts granted on shipping and handling costs. readOnly: true valueBasedDiscounts: type: array description: The IDs of all discounts granted on the order total. readOnly: true items: type: string description: The IDs of all discounts granted on the order total. readOnly: true description: Provides details about the applied discounts. readOnly: true OrderRO_v1: required: - basket - termsAndConditionsAccepted type: object properties: affiliatePartner: type: string description: The affiliate partner id of the order. readOnly: true example: 4bcKAB2Ykg4AAAFbjvEYRPJ7 affiliateProgram: type: string description: The affiliate program id of the order. readOnly: true example: uzMKAB2YvKAAAAFb7DUYRPJ8 attributes: type: array readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeRO_v1" basket: type: string description: The basket (ID) which this order is created from. example: b45KeTsBizQBBBFjXFAA6S15 buckets: type: array description: The bucket ids of all shipping buckets of an order. readOnly: true items: type: string description: The bucket ids of all shipping buckets of an order. readOnly: true buyer: $ref: "#/components/schemas/UserInformationRO_v1" buyingContext: type: string description: "The buying context the order is bound to, in the format 'group_ID'@'organization_id'." readOnly: true example: Headquarter@BioTech commonShipToAddress: type: string description: The common ship-to address URN of the order. readOnly: true example: urn:address:customer:As8BcSwoiuFEEEAd3pp1Oye:Xf7AqMgoyuMAAAEs2sx0Uei commonShippingMethod: type: string description: The common shipping method id of the order. readOnly: true example: STD_5DAY costCenter: type: string description: The cost center id of the order. readOnly: true example: "511288" creationDate: type: string description: The creation date of the order. format: date-time readOnly: true example: 2019-06-30T13:23:45+02:00 customFields: type: array description: __BETA__ | List of custom field values items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CustomField_v1" customer: type: string description: The order owner customer number. readOnly: true example: BioTech customerOrderID: type: string description: The customer order id specified by the customer/buyer. readOnly: true example: "30000008899" department: type: string description: The department name of the order. readOnly: true example: SALES discounts: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderDiscountsRO_v1" documentNumber: type: string description: The document number of the order. readOnly: true externalOrderReference: type: string description: The order reference id specified by the buyer. readOnly: true example: "30000008899" deprecated: true id: type: string description: The ID of the order. readOnly: true example: q2QKAEsBiyQAAAFjXFBB6G14 invoiceToAddress: type: string description: The invoice-to address URN of the order. readOnly: true example: urn:address:customer:As8BcSwoiuFEEEAd3pp1Oye:Xf7AqMgoyuMAAAEs2sx0Uei lineItems: type: array description: The IDs of all line items of an order. readOnly: true items: type: string description: The IDs of all line items of an order. readOnly: true messageToMerchant: type: string description: Something what the buyer would like to tell the merchant. readOnly: true example: Is it possible to send the ordered articles before Christmas? orderCreation: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderCreationRO_v1" payments: type: array description: The payments used to pay the order. readOnly: true items: type: string description: The payments used to pay the order. readOnly: true promotionCodes: type: array description: The promotion codes of the order. readOnly: true items: type: string description: The promotion codes of the order. readOnly: true purchaseCurrency: type: string description: The purchase currency of the order. readOnly: true example: USD recurringOrderDocumentNo: type: string description: The recurring order number. readOnly: true recurringOrderID: type: string description: The id of the recurring order this order was created for. readOnly: true requisitionDocumentNo: type: string description: The requisition documentnumber. readOnly: true example: "00001052" status: type: string description: The localized display name of the order status. readOnly: true example: in progress statusCode: type: string description: The status code of the order. readOnly: true example: INPROGRESS supplierOrderID: type: string description: The supplier order id specified by the supplier. readOnly: true example: "30000008899" surcharges: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderSurchargesRO_v1" taxIdentificationNumber: type: string description: The tax identification number of the buyer/company. readOnly: true example: "11111111" termsAndConditionsAccepted: type: boolean description: Flag for specifying whether the terms and conditions have been accepted. A value of 'false' will cause the order creation to fail. totalProductQuantity: type: number description: The sum of all quantities of products in the order. readOnly: true example: 23 totals: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderTotalsRO_v1" user: type: string description: The order owner user login. Will get the current login value. Please refer to buyer for original data readOnly: true deprecated: true description: A representation of an order OrderSurchargeRO_v1: type: object properties: amount: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" name: type: string description: The name of an element readOnly: true example: Fridge Box description: type: string description: The surcharge's localized description readOnly: true example: Needs a fridge box for shipping. taxes: type: array description: The taxes applied to the surcharge readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/TaxItemRO_v1" description: Describes a single surcharge incurred to a shipping bucket readOnly: true OrderSurchargesRO_v1: type: object properties: bucketSurcharges: type: array description: All bucket based extra charges arising from surcharges with action type 'bucket'. readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderSurchargeRO_v1" itemSurcharges: type: array description: All item based extra charges arising from surcharges directly specified on product or by shipping rules with action type 'item'. readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderSurchargeRO_v1" description: Surcharges that are applied to an order. readOnly: true OrderTotalsRO_v1: type: object properties: grandTotal: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" paymentCostsTotal: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" undiscountedItemTotal: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" undiscountedShippingTotal: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" bucketShippingDiscountsTotal: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" discountTotal: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" giftingTotal: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" itemShippingDiscountsTotal: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" itemTotal: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" itemValueDiscountsTotal: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" orderShippingDiscountsTotal: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" orderValueDiscountsTotal: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" salesTaxTotalsByTaxRate: type: array description: "All sales taxes applied to the order, accumulated by their\ \ tax rates." readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/TaxItemRO_v1" shippingDiscountsTotal: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" shippingTaxTotalsByTaxRate: type: array description: "All shipping taxes applied to the order, accumulated by their\ \ tax rates." readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/TaxItemRO_v1" shippingTotal: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" surchargeTotal: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" taxTotalsByTaxRate: type: array description: "All taxes applied to the order, accumulated by their tax rates\ \ (includes taxes levied to sales, prices, shipping and surcharges." readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/TaxItemRO_v1" valueDiscountsTotal: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" customFields: type: object additionalProperties: type: object description: Total price values for an order. readOnly: true ParameterRO_v1: type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element example: expiryDate value: type: object description: The value of the parameter example: 12/30 description: A representation of a parameter value PaymentRedirectRO_v1: required: - cancelUrl - failureUrl - successUrl type: object properties: cancelUrl: type: string description: "The URL to be called when the user cancelled payment and the\ \ PSP redirects the user back to the shop. Placeholders can be used in\ \ this URL that get replaced by their real values during order creation.\ \ Per default, the placeholders \\*orderID\\* and \\*paymentID\\* are\ \ available." format: uri example: https://shop.server/cancel?paymentID=*paymentID* failureUrl: type: string description: "The URL to be called when the payment failed and the PSP redirects\ \ the user back to the shop. Placeholders can be used in this URL that\ \ get replaced by their real values during order creation. Per default,\ \ the placeholders \\*orderID\\* and \\*paymentID\\* are available." format: uri example: https://shop.server/failure parameters: type: array description: List of parameters returned in the redirect response from the PSP items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ParameterRO_v1" redirectUrl: type: string description: The URL to be called when redirecting the user to the payment providers page format: uri readOnly: true example: https://psp-server/pay status: type: string description: The final status of the redirect returned to the shop example: SUCCESS enum: - SUCCESS - CANCEL - FAILURE successUrl: type: string description: "The URL to be called on successful payment redirect back to\ \ the shop. Placeholders can be used in this URL that get replaced by\ \ their real values during order creation. Per default, the placeholders\ \ \\*orderID\\* and \\*paymentID\\* are available." format: uri example: https://shop.server/success?orderID=*orderID* description: Describes a payment redirect PriceRO_v1: type: object properties: gross: $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1" net: $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1" priceQuantity: $ref: "#/components/schemas/QuantityRO_v1" tax: $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1" description: "Describes a price. A price has a monetary net, gross, and tax\ \ value and a quantity the price refers to (optional)." readOnly: true QuantityAttributeRO_v1: required: - name - type - value type: object description: A representation of a quantity attribute allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeRO_v1Object" - type: object properties: value: $ref: "#/components/schemas/QuantityRO_v1" QuantityRO_v1: required: - value type: object properties: unit: type: string description: The unit of the quantity example: kg value: type: number description: The quantity's value example: 10 description: The quantity of a business entity readOnly: true StopActionRO_v1: required: - type type: object properties: type: type: string description: 'The type of the element. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate elements by their type. ' readOnly: true description: A representation of a stop action. A stop action is an action that needs to be performed before a certain process (e. g. creation of an order) can be continued. readOnly: true discriminator: propertyName: type mapping: Redirect: "#/components/schemas/StopActionRedirectRO_v1" Workflow: "#/components/schemas/StopActionWorkflowRO_v1" oneOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/StopActionRedirectRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/StopActionWorkflowRO_v1" StopActionRedirectRO_v1: required: - redirectUrl - type type: object description: A redirect stop action. Contains an URL (e. g. to a payment service provider) that needs to be visited before the stopped process can be continued. allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/StopActionRO_v1" - type: object properties: redirectUrl: type: string description: The redirect URL that needs to be visited before the stopped process can be continued. format: uri readOnly: true StopActionWorkflowRO_v1: required: - exitReason - type type: object description: A workflow stop action. This indicates that an external workflow (e. g. order approval) needs to be triggered before the stopped process can continue. allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/StopActionRO_v1" - type: object properties: exitReason: type: string description: The reason stating why the process was stopped and which workflow needs to be triggered before the stopped process can continue. readOnly: true example: approval_workflow StringAttributeRO_v1: required: - name - type - value type: object description: A representation of a string attribute allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeRO_v1Object" - type: object properties: value: type: string description: The string attribute value StringFieldRO: required: - name - type type: object allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/CustomField_v1" - type: object properties: value: type: string description: The string value TaxItemRO_v1: required: - calculatedTax - effectiveTaxRate type: object properties: calculatedTax: $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1" effectiveTaxRate: type: number description: The effective rate used to calculate the tax jurisdiction: $ref: "#/components/schemas/JurisdictionRO_v1" nonTaxableAmount: $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1" situs: type: string description: The situs/place of taxation readOnly: true example: DESTINATION enum: - "NULL" - ADMINISTRATIVE_DESTINATION - ADMINISTRATIVE_ORIGIN - DESTINATION - ORIGIN taxableAmount: $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1" description: Represents a single tax item readOnly: true TextAttributeRO_v1: required: - name - type - value type: object description: A representation of a text attribute allOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeRO_v1Object" - type: object properties: value: type: string description: The text attribute value UserInformationRO_v1: type: object properties: accountID: type: string description: The login of a user companyName: type: string description: The company name example: BioTech companyName2: type: string description: The second company name customerNo: type: string description: A user's customer number example: "1234567" email: type: string description: The e-mail address of a user example: miller@test.intershop.de firstName: type: string description: The first name of a user example: Max lastName: type: string description: The last name of a user example: Miller secondLastName: type: string description: The second last name of a user example: Mayer secondName: type: string description: The second name of a user example: Paul title: type: string description: The title of a user example: Mr. userNo: type: string description: The user number example: 34567-23 description: Contains information about the user readOnly: true ListInfoRO_v1: title: ListInfoRO_v1 type: object properties: hasMoreElements: type: boolean description: Flag that expresses if there are more entries available readOnly: true example: true limit: type: integer description: The limit of list entries to be shown format: int32 readOnly: true example: 20 offset: type: integer description: Excludes the first N items from the list format: int32 readOnly: true example: 10 total: type: integer description: The total amount of entries in the list format: int32 readOnly: true example: 30 description: The optional information about the response object. All values are also optional. OrderListCtnrRO_v1: type: object properties: data: type: array description: The core data of the response object items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderRO_v1" errors: type: array description: List of errors related to the request readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" included: type: object properties: lineItems_product: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderProductRO_v1" payments_paymentInstrument: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/PaymentInstrumentRO_v1" lineItems_shippingMethod: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderShippingMethodRO_v1" commonShippingMethod: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderShippingMethodRO_v1" buckets: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderShippingBucketRO_v1" payments: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/PaymentRO_v1" commonShipToAddress: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/AddressRO_v1" buckets_shippingMethod: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderShippingMethodRO_v1" buckets_discounts: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderDiscountRO_v1" lineItems_shipToAddress: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/AddressRO_v1" lineItems: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderLineItemRO_v1" buyingContext: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/BuyingContextRO_v1" discounts: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderDiscountRO_v1" lineItems_discounts: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderDiscountRO_v1" discounts_promotion: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderPromotionRO_v1" payments_paymentMethod: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/PaymentMethodRO_v1" invoiceToAddress: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/AddressRO_v1" buckets_shipToAddress: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/AddressRO_v1" lineItems_warranty: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderWarrantyRO_v1" description: Optionally included related data objects. Included via "include" query parameter. readOnly: true x-supported-include-type: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resourceobject.order.OrderRO info: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ListInfoRO_v1" infos: type: array description: "List of information related to the request (e.g., value adjustments)" readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" links: type: object additionalProperties: type: object description: Map of links to this and optionally included related data objects. The object in the "data" property is always referenced by the identifier "self". This identifier may also contain a list of URIs if the data block includes multiple elements. readOnly: true description: Map of links to this and optionally included related data objects. The object in the "data" property is always referenced by the identifier "self". This identifier may also contain a list of URIs if the data block includes multiple elements. readOnly: true AttributeCtnrRO_v1: type: object properties: data: $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeRO_v1Object" errors: type: array description: List of errors related to the request readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" included: type: object additionalProperties: type: object description: Optionally included related data objects description: Optionally included related data objects infos: type: array description: "List of information related to the request (e.g., value adjustments)" readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" links: type: object additionalProperties: type: object description: Map of links to this and optionally included related data objects. The object in the "data" property is always referenced by the identifier "self". This identifier may also contain a list of URIs if the data block includes multiple elements. readOnly: true description: Map of links to this and optionally included related data objects. The object in the "data" property is always referenced by the identifier "self". This identifier may also contain a list of URIs if the data block includes multiple elements. readOnly: true AttributeRO_v1Object: required: - name - type type: object properties: name: type: string description: The name of an element type: type: string description: 'The type of the element. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate elements by their type. ' enum: - Boolean - Date - Decimal - Double - Integer - Long - Money - Quantity - String - Text - MultipleBoolean - MultipleDate - MultipleDecimal - MultipleDouble - MultipleInteger - MultipleLong - MultipleString value: type: object description: A representation of an attribute discriminator: propertyName: type mapping: Boolean: "#/components/schemas/BooleanAttributeRO_v1" Date: "#/components/schemas/DateAttributeRO_v1" Decimal: "#/components/schemas/DecimalAttributeRO_v1" Double: "#/components/schemas/DoubleAttributeRO_v1" Integer: "#/components/schemas/IntegerAttributeRO_v1" Long: "#/components/schemas/LongAttributeRO_v1" Money: "#/components/schemas/MoneyAttributeRO_v1" Quantity: "#/components/schemas/QuantityAttributeRO_v1" String: "#/components/schemas/StringAttributeRO_v1" Text: "#/components/schemas/TextAttributeRO_v1" MultipleBoolean: "#/components/schemas/MultipleBooleanAttributeRO_v1" MultipleDate: "#/components/schemas/MultipleDateAttributeRO_v1" MultipleDecimal: "#/components/schemas/MultipleDecimalAttributeRO_v1" MultipleDouble: "#/components/schemas/MultipleDoubleAttributeRO_v1" MultipleInteger: "#/components/schemas/MultipleIntegerAttributeRO_v1" MultipleLong: "#/components/schemas/MultipleLongAttributeRO_v1" MultipleString: "#/components/schemas/MultipleStringAttributeRO_v1" oneOf: - $ref: "#/components/schemas/BooleanAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/DateAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/DecimalAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/DoubleAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/IntegerAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/LongAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/QuantityAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/StringAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/TextAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/MultipleBooleanAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/MultipleDateAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/MultipleDecimalAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/MultipleDoubleAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/MultipleIntegerAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/MultipleLongAttributeRO_v1" - $ref: "#/components/schemas/MultipleStringAttributeRO_v1" AttributeListCtnrRO_v1: type: object properties: data: type: array description: The core data of the response object items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeRO_v1Object" errors: type: array description: List of errors related to the request readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" included: type: object additionalProperties: type: object description: Optionally included related data objects description: Optionally included related data objects infos: type: array description: "List of information related to the request (e.g., value adjustments)" readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" links: type: object additionalProperties: type: object description: Map of links to this and optionally included related data objects. The object in the "data" property is always referenced by the identifier "self". This identifier may also contain a list of URIs if the data block includes multiple elements. readOnly: true description: Map of links to this and optionally included related data objects. The object in the "data" property is always referenced by the identifier "self". This identifier may also contain a list of URIs if the data block includes multiple elements. readOnly: true OrderLineItemListCtnrRO_v1: type: object properties: data: type: array description: The core data of the response object items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderLineItemRO_v1" errors: type: array description: List of errors related to the request readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" included: type: object properties: shipToAddress: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/AddressRO_v1" warranty: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderWarrantyRO_v1" product: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderProductRO_v1" discounts: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderDiscountRO_v1" shippingMethod: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderShippingMethodRO_v1" discounts_promotion: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderPromotionRO_v1" description: Optionally included related data objects. Included via "include" query parameter. readOnly: true x-supported-include-type: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resourceobject.lineitem.LineItemRO infos: type: array description: "List of information related to the request (e.g., value adjustments)" readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" links: type: object additionalProperties: type: object description: Map of links to this and optionally included related data objects. The object in the "data" property is always referenced by the identifier "self". This identifier may also contain a list of URIs if the data block includes multiple elements. readOnly: true description: Map of links to this and optionally included related data objects. The object in the "data" property is always referenced by the identifier "self". This identifier may also contain a list of URIs if the data block includes multiple elements. readOnly: true OrderLineItemPricingRO_v1: type: object properties: giftingTotal: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" price: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" salesTaxTotal: $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1" shippingRebatesTotal: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" shippingTaxTotal: $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1" singleBasePrice: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" undiscountedPrice: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" undiscountedShippingTotal: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" undiscountedSingleBasePrice: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" valueRebatesTotal: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" customFields: type: object additionalProperties: type: object description: total price values of a line item readOnly: true OrderLineItemRO_v1: required: - product - quantity type: object properties: attributes: type: array readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeRO_v1" customFields: type: array description: __BETA__ | List of custom field values items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/CustomField_v1" customerProductID: type: string description: The customer product ID for the item readOnly: true example: OC5079747 description: type: string description: The description for the product line item readOnly: true example: "20 ANSI Lumen, 2000:1, 854 x 480, LED" desiredDelivery: type: string description: The desired delivery date for the item format: date readOnly: true example: 2001-07-04 discounts: type: array description: The IDs of the discounts applied to the item pricing readOnly: true items: type: string description: The IDs of the discounts applied to the item pricing readOnly: true displayName: type: string description: The display name of the product line item readOnly: true example: Acer C20 silver edition freeGift: type: boolean description: Flag indicating that this product line item is a free gift and has been automatically placed in the line item container readOnly: true example: false fulfillmentStatus: type: string description: The fulfillment status of this line item readOnly: true example: NEW giftMessage: type: string description: Additional gift message for the line item readOnly: true giftWrap: type: string description: Additional gift wrapping for the line item readOnly: true hiddenGift: type: boolean description: Flag indicating that this product line item is a free gift that will not be displayed in the line item container readOnly: true example: false id: type: string description: The line item's unique identifier readOnly: true order: type: string description: The order this line item belongs to readOnly: true example: yUQKAEsBeeoAAAFl9vhJwIZc partialOrderNo: type: string description: The partial order number for the item readOnly: true example: OC5079747 position: type: integer description: The position of the item in the order format: int32 readOnly: true pricing: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderLineItemPricingRO_v1" product: type: string description: The product represented as stock keeping unit (SKU) readOnly: true example: "5079747" quantity: $ref: "#/components/schemas/QuantityRO_v1" quote: type: string description: The quote this item was created from readOnly: true example: Qu0T3MgoyuMAx9Es2sx0Ue1 shipToAddress: type: string description: The ship-to address URN for this line item readOnly: true example: urn:address:customer:As8BcSwoiuFEEEAd3pp1Oye:Xf7AqMgoyuMAAAEs2sx0Uei shippingMethod: type: string description: The shipping method ID for this line item readOnly: true example: STD_5DAY surcharges: type: array description: Details about additional surcharges applied to the item readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderSurchargeRO_v1" thumbnail: type: string description: The thumbnail URI of the product readOnly: true example: /INTERSHOP/static/WFS/inSPIRED-inTRONICS-Site/-/inSPIRED/en_US/M/3957288-5427.jpg warranty: type: string description: A warranty assigned to the line item readOnly: true description: Describes a line item that is part of an order OrderLineItemCtnrRO_v1: type: object properties: data: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderLineItemRO_v1" errors: type: array description: List of errors related to the request readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" included: type: object properties: shipToAddress: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/AddressRO_v1" warranty: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderWarrantyRO_v1" product: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderProductRO_v1" discounts: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderDiscountRO_v1" shippingMethod: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderShippingMethodRO_v1" discounts_promotion: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderPromotionRO_v1" description: Optionally included related data objects. Included via "include" query parameter. readOnly: true x-supported-include-type: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resourceobject.lineitem.LineItemRO infos: type: array description: "List of information related to the request (e.g., value adjustments)" readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" links: type: object additionalProperties: type: object description: Map of links to this and optionally included related data objects. The object in the "data" property is always referenced by the identifier "self". This identifier may also contain a list of URIs if the data block includes multiple elements. readOnly: true description: Map of links to this and optionally included related data objects. The object in the "data" property is always referenced by the identifier "self". This identifier may also contain a list of URIs if the data block includes multiple elements. readOnly: true OrderShippingBucketListCtnrRO_v1: type: object properties: data: type: array description: The core data of the response object items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderShippingBucketRO_v1" errors: type: array description: List of errors related to the request readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" included: type: object properties: shipToAddress: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/AddressRO_v1" discounts: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderDiscountRO_v1" shippingMethod: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderShippingMethodRO_v1" discounts_promotion: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderPromotionRO_v1" description: Optionally included related data objects. Included via "include" query parameter. readOnly: true x-supported-include-type: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resourceobject.shipping.ShippingBucketRO infos: type: array description: "List of information related to the request (e.g., value adjustments)" readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" links: type: object additionalProperties: type: object description: Map of links to this and optionally included related data objects. The object in the "data" property is always referenced by the identifier "self". This identifier may also contain a list of URIs if the data block includes multiple elements. readOnly: true description: Map of links to this and optionally included related data objects. The object in the "data" property is always referenced by the identifier "self". This identifier may also contain a list of URIs if the data block includes multiple elements. readOnly: true OrderShippingBucketRO_v1: type: object properties: deliveryTimeMax: type: object properties: years: type: integer format: int32 months: type: integer format: int32 days: type: integer format: int32 zero: type: boolean negative: type: boolean units: type: array items: type: object properties: durationEstimated: type: boolean duration: type: object properties: seconds: type: integer format: int64 zero: type: boolean nano: type: integer format: int32 negative: type: boolean positive: type: boolean timeBased: type: boolean dateBased: type: boolean chronology: type: object properties: id: type: string calendarType: type: string isoBased: type: boolean description: The maximum time the delivery will take based on the chosen shipping method (in ISO-8601 period format) readOnly: true example: P7D deliveryTimeMin: type: object properties: years: type: integer format: int32 months: type: integer format: int32 days: type: integer format: int32 zero: type: boolean negative: type: boolean units: type: array items: type: object properties: durationEstimated: type: boolean duration: type: object properties: seconds: type: integer format: int64 zero: type: boolean nano: type: integer format: int32 negative: type: boolean positive: type: boolean timeBased: type: boolean dateBased: type: boolean chronology: type: object properties: id: type: string calendarType: type: string isoBased: type: boolean description: The minimum time the delivery will take based on the chosen shipping method (in ISO-8601 period format) readOnly: true example: P3D discounts: type: array description: The IDs of the discounts applied to the bucket totals readOnly: true items: type: string description: The IDs of the discounts applied to the bucket totals readOnly: true id: type: string description: The ID of the bucket readOnly: true example: "54489489212" lineItems: type: array description: The IDs of all line items which are associated with this bucket readOnly: true items: type: string description: The IDs of all line items which are associated with this bucket readOnly: true order: type: string description: The order this shipping bucket belongs to readOnly: true example: yUQKAEsBeeoAAAFl9vhJwIZc shipToAddress: type: string description: The ship-to address URN for this bucket readOnly: true example: urn:address:customer:As8BcSwoiuFEEEAd3pp1Oye:Xf7AqMgoyuMAAAEs2sx0Uei shippingCosts: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" shippingMethod: type: string description: The shipping method ID for this bucket readOnly: true example: STD_5DAY surcharges: type: array description: All extra charges arising from surcharges directly specified on the product or by shipping rules with action type 'bucket' readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderSurchargeRO_v1" customFields: type: object additionalProperties: type: object description: Describes a shipping bucket OrderShippingBucketCtnrRO_v1: type: object properties: data: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderShippingBucketRO_v1" errors: type: array description: List of errors related to the request readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" included: type: object properties: shipToAddress: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/AddressRO_v1" discounts: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderDiscountRO_v1" shippingMethod: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderShippingMethodRO_v1" discounts_promotion: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/OrderPromotionRO_v1" description: Optionally included related data objects. Included via "include" query parameter. readOnly: true x-supported-include-type: com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resourceobject.shipping.ShippingBucketRO infos: type: array description: "List of information related to the request (e.g., value adjustments)" readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" links: type: object additionalProperties: type: object description: Map of links to this and optionally included related data objects. The object in the "data" property is always referenced by the identifier "self". This identifier may also contain a list of URIs if the data block includes multiple elements. readOnly: true description: Map of links to this and optionally included related data objects. The object in the "data" property is always referenced by the identifier "self". This identifier may also contain a list of URIs if the data block includes multiple elements. readOnly: true PaymentCtnrRO_v1: type: object properties: data: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PaymentRO_v1" errors: type: array description: List of errors related to the request readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" included: type: object properties: paymentMethod: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/PaymentMethodRO_v1" paymentInstrument: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/PaymentInstrumentRO_v1" paymentInstrument_paymentMethod: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/PaymentMethodRO_v1" paymentMethod_paymentInstruments: type: object properties: : $ref: "#/components/schemas/PaymentInstrumentRO_v1" description: Optionally included related data objects. Included via "include" query parameter. readOnly: true x-supported-include-type: com.intershop.sellside.rest.payment.v1.capi.resourceobject.payment.PaymentRO infos: type: array description: "List of information related to the request (e.g., value adjustments)" readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/FeedbackRO_v1" links: type: object additionalProperties: type: object description: Map of links to this and optionally included related data objects. The object in the "data" property is always referenced by the identifier "self". This identifier may also contain a list of URIs if the data block includes multiple elements. readOnly: true description: Map of links to this and optionally included related data objects. The object in the "data" property is always referenced by the identifier "self". This identifier may also contain a list of URIs if the data block includes multiple elements. readOnly: true PaymentRO_v1: required: - paymentInstrument type: object properties: baseAmount: $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1" id: type: string description: The ID of the payment readOnly: true example: AAFjXFq2QKAEsBiyQABB6G14 openTender: type: boolean description: Indicates whether or not the payment is an 'open-tender' payment readOnly: true paymentCosts: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" paymentInstrument: type: string description: The reference to the payment instrument that was selected for this payment example: c2UKAEsBar8AAAFmxYVBTOiI paymentMethod: type: string description: The reference to the payment method that was used for this payment readOnly: true example: ISH_INVOICE redirect: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PaymentRedirectRO_v1" redirectRequired: type: boolean description: Indicates whether or not a redirect is required to finish the payment. The type of redirect (before or after the checkout process) can be determined via the capabilities of the payment method. readOnly: true status: type: string description: The localized display name of the payment status readOnly: true example: Partially captured totalAmount: $ref: "#/components/schemas/MoneyRO_v1" description: A payment assigned to the basket/order to pay the bill with BuyingContextRO_v1: type: object properties: groupId: type: string description: The identifier of the hierarchy group. readOnly: true example: BioTech_Germany groupName: type: string description: The name of the hierarchy group. readOnly: true example: BioTech Germany groupPath: uniqueItems: true type: array description: The hierarchy path from the root to the selected group. readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/GroupRO_v1" organizationId: type: string description: The identifier of the buying organization the group belongs to. readOnly: true example: BioTech description: Provides details about the buying context. GroupRO_v1: type: object properties: groupId: type: string description: The identifier of the hierarchy group. readOnly: true example: BioTech_Germany groupName: type: string description: The name of the hierarchy group. readOnly: true example: BioTech Germany description: Represents a single group in the organization hierarchy. readOnly: true PaymentMethodRO_v1: type: object properties: capabilities: type: array description: List of supported payment service capabilities readOnly: true example: RedirectAfterCheckout items: type: string description: List of supported payment service capabilities readOnly: true example: RedirectAfterCheckout default: type: boolean description: Indicates whether the payment method is the default payment method of the channel readOnly: true description: type: string description: A more detailed description of the payment method readOnly: true example: Simulate a payment with the Intershop demo method displayName: type: string description: The display name of the payment method readOnly: true example: ISH Demo Payment hostedPaymentPageParameters: type: array description: List of content parameters for Hosted Payment Pages readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ParameterRO_v1" id: type: string description: The ID of the payment method. Internally this is the ID of the payment method configuration in the back office readOnly: true example: ISH_INVOICE maxOrderAmount: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" minOrderAmount: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" parameterDefinitions: type: array description: "List of parameters (e.g., credit card 3DS token or IBAN) for\ \ this payment" readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ParameterDefinitionRO_v1" paymentCosts: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" paymentCostsThreshold: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" paymentInstruments: type: array description: The IDs of all payment instruments stored for this payment method in the current context readOnly: true items: type: string description: The IDs of all payment instruments stored for this payment method in the current context readOnly: true restricted: type: boolean description: Indicates whether the payment method can be used in the current context readOnly: true restrictions: type: array description: The restrictions which prevent the payment method from being applicable readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PaymentRestrictionRO_v1" saveAllowed: type: boolean description: Indicates whether the entered payment data can be saved for later reuse readOnly: true example: false serviceID: type: string description: The ID of the payment service readOnly: true example: SomePaymentProvider_CreditCard description: A configured payment method OptionRO_v1: type: object properties: displayName: type: string description: The localized display name of the parameter option example: American Express id: type: string description: The ID of the parameter option example: amx description: A representation of a parameter option ParameterDefinitionRO_v1: required: - name - type type: object properties: constraints: type: object additionalProperties: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ConstraintRO_v1" description: A map of parameter constraints. The key is the constraint type. description: type: string description: The localized parameter description readOnly: true displayName: type: string description: The localized display name of the parameter readOnly: true example: Expiration Date hidden: type: boolean description: A flag indicating a hidden parameter that is not visible in the UI readOnly: true name: type: string description: The name of an element readOnly: true example: expiryDate options: type: array description: A list of allowable values to choose from for this parameter items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/OptionRO_v1" placeholder: type: string description: A placeholder string for the parameter readOnly: true type: type: string description: 'The type of the element. This is normally a **constant** that can be used to differentiate elements by their type. ' readOnly: true example: String updatable: type: boolean description: A flag indicating that a parameter value is updatable via REST readOnly: true description: A representation of a parameter definition readOnly: true OrderPromotionRO_v1: required: - id type: object properties: id: type: string description: The promotion id. readOnly: true example: FreeShippingOnLEDTVs couponCodeRequired: type: boolean description: Is a promotion code needed. readOnly: true example: true currency: type: string description: The promotion currency. readOnly: true example: USD description: type: string description: The promotion description. readOnly: true example: For LED TVs the shipping is free. disableMessages: type: boolean description: Flag that indicates if the promotion specific messages should be disabled. readOnly: true example: true externalUrl: type: string description: External URL. readOnly: true example: http://www.abc.de icon: type: string description: The promotion icon. readOnly: true legalContentMessage: type: string description: The promotion legal content message. readOnly: true example: "Offer valid only while supplies\ \ last and not applicable to canceled orders due to out-of-stock merchandise.\ \ " longTitle: type: string description: The promotion long title. readOnly: true example: Free shipping on orders with an LED TV. name: type: string description: The name of an element readOnly: true example: Free Shipping on LED TVs promotionType: type: string description: The promotion type. readOnly: true example: ShippingPercentageOffDiscount ruleDescription: type: string description: The promotion rule description. readOnly: true example: Buy any LED TV and the order ships free. title: type: string description: The promotion title. readOnly: true example: "free shipping!" useExternalUrl: type: boolean description: Flag that indicates if the external URL should be used. readOnly: true example: true customFields: type: object additionalProperties: type: object description: Describes the applied promotion. OrderProductRO_v1: type: object properties: available: type: boolean description: Checks if the product is available to be ordered. readOnly: true example: true inStock: type: boolean description: Gets the product inventory status. readOnly: true example: true longDescription: type: string description: The product's long description. readOnly: true example: "Looking for an easy-to-use camera that's easy on your budget?\ \ You'll love the KODAK EASYSHARE C142 Digital Camera. With Kodak�s Smart\ \ Capture feature, brilliant pictures happen automatically. No worries.\ \ No hassles. Just beautiful pictures. And because it�s from Kodak, your\ \ memories will be as vivid as the moment they happened. If you want an\ \ affordable camera you'll feel good about, look to the name you know\ \ and trust. Whether it�s for you, or a gift for someone else, the C142\ \ Camera is the perfect fit for sharing your memories. One-button\ \ upload�turn moments into memories - Snap your picture. -\ \ Press the Share button and tag it to YouTube, FACEBOOK, FLICKR and KODAK\ \ Gallery sites, plus e-mail too. - Connect your camera to your computer,\ \ and with Kodak's Share button app, your pictures are automatically uploaded. -\ \ Your pictures and videos are automatically transferred to your computer. KODAK\ \ EASYSHARE Software The complete solution for transferring, online\ \ sharing, e-mailing, organizing, editing, and creative printing of your\ \ pictures. - Organize your pictures with your own tags, star\ \ ratings, and date and time stamps, then use the search feature to quickly\ \ find any picture in your collection. - Edit your pictures with ease'select\ \ from a variety of simple tools that reduce red-eye, improve lighting,\ \ remove wrinkles and blemishes, and add text. - Create photo projects\ \ online or at home'choose from hundreds of templates and designs to create\ \ album pages, cards, invitations and much more. - Manually upload\ \ to YouTube, FACEBOOK, FLICKR and KODAK Gallery sites, plus e-mail too. Exceptional\ \ quality prints with 10 MP - 10 MP means you can make stunning\ \ prints up to 76 x 102 cm (30 ' 40 in.). - More megapixels means\ \ you can crop and enlarge and still have great picture quality. -\ \ However you choose to print'at home, at retail, or online'trust Kodak\ \ for picture quality that's truly exceptional and for memories that will\ \ last. 3X digital zoom lens - 3X optical zoom (35\ \ mm equivalent: 35'102 mm) gets you closer to your subjects without reducing\ \ image quality. - The KODAK AF Optical Zoom Lens captures crisp details. -\ \ Zoom in close and capture all the details." name: type: string description: The name of an element readOnly: true example: InTRONICS IS-25Y Portable productBundle: type: boolean description: Checks if the product is a product bundle. readOnly: true example: false shortDescription: type: string description: The product's short description. readOnly: true example: "EasyShare C142, 10.3Mp, 1/ 6.35 cm (2.5 \\\") CCD, 3x opt, SD/SDHC,\ \ USB 2.0" sku: type: string description: The stock keeping unit (SKU) of the product. readOnly: true example: "5079747" variationProduct: type: boolean description: Checks if the product is a variation product. readOnly: true example: true customFields: type: object additionalProperties: type: object description: A sellable entity that is offered to a customer. PaymentRestrictionRO_v1: required: - code - message type: object properties: code: type: string description: A unique identifier for this restriction readOnly: true example: payment.restriction.MultipleBuckets message: type: string description: A human readable message in the request's locale describing the restriction readOnly: true example: Not available for orders being dispatched to multiple addresses or in multiple shipments. parameters: type: object additionalProperties: type: object description: A map of additional parameters to be used in the description readOnly: true description: A map of additional parameters to be used in the description readOnly: true description: A restriction which limits the use of a payment method readOnly: true PaymentInstrumentRO_v1: required: - paymentMethod type: object properties: accountIdentifier: type: string description: An optional identifier for the customers bank account. readOnly: true example: DE12****7890 id: type: string description: The ID of the payment instrument. example: AAFjXFq2QKAEsBiyQABB6G14 numberOfPayments: type: integer description: The number of payments done with this instrument. format: int32 readOnly: true example: 3 parameters: type: array description: The parameters for the payment instrument. items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/ParameterRO_v1" paymentMethod: type: string description: The reference to the payment method the instrument is created for. example: ISH_DIRECT_DEBIT urn: type: string description: The URN of the payment instrument. example: urn:payment-instrument:basket:q2QKAEsBiyQAAAFjXFBB6G14:AAFjXFq2QKAEsBiyQABB6G14 description: A payment instrument with stored bank account data. OrderDiscountRO_v1: required: - id type: object properties: id: type: string description: The ID of the promotion that triggered the discount. readOnly: true example: 92YKAM6dZtIAAAFb_KwtfPFU amount: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" code: type: string description: The used promotion code. readOnly: true example: Intershop promotion: type: string description: The promotion id. readOnly: true example: FreeShippingOnLEDTVs customFields: type: object additionalProperties: type: object description: Describes a discount arising from an applied promotion. AddressRO_v1: type: object properties: addressLine1: type: string description: "The first address line, which usually contains street and\ \ house number" example: Berliner Str. 20 addressLine2: type: string description: The second address line addressLine3: type: string description: The third address line aristocraticTitle: type: string description: "The aristocratic title of the contact person, like 'Lord'\ \ or 'Lady'" attributes: type: array readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeRO_v1" city: type: string description: The name of the city example: Potsdam companyName1: type: string description: The company name in case it is a business address example: Intershop Communications AG companyName2: type: string description: The second company name country: type: string description: The localized display name of the country readOnly: true example: Germany countryCode: type: string description: The ISO 3166-1 country code example: DE customer: type: string eligibleInstallToAddress: type: boolean description: Flag indicating that the address can be used as install-to address example: false eligibleInvoiceToAddress: type: boolean description: Flag indicating that the address can be used as invoice-to address example: true eligibleServiceToAddress: type: boolean description: Flag indicating that the address can be used as service-to address example: false eligibleShipFromAddress: type: boolean description: Flag indicating that the address can be used as ship-from address example: false eligibleShipToAddress: type: boolean description: Flag indicating that the address can be used as ship-to address example: true email: type: string description: The e-mail address of the contact person example: patricia@test.intershop.de externalId: type: string description: The ID uniquely identifying the address in an external system; required only for data objects that have already been synchronized with the external system example: "000123456" externalUrn: type: string description: The URN uniquely identifying the address in an external system; required only for data objects that have already been synchronized with the external system example: urn:address:MSDynamics365:MyCorp:000123456 fax: type: string description: The fax number firstName: type: string description: "The given name (also known as a personal name, first name,\ \ forename, or Christian name) of the contact person" example: Patricia honorific: type: string description: "The honorific title of the contact person that denotes the\ \ honored person's occupation, like 'Captain', 'Reverend', or the academic\ \ title, like 'PhD'" id: type: string description: The ID that identifies the address example: "0987654321" jobTitle: type: string description: The job title of the contact person lastName: type: string description: "The last name (also known as a family name, surname, or gentile\ \ name) of the contact person" example: Miller mainDivision: type: string description: The localized display name of the main division readOnly: true example: Alabama mainDivisionCode: type: string description: "The main division code of the country, e. g., a state or province" example: Al phoneBusiness: type: string description: The phone number of the contact person's company phoneBusinessDirect: type: string description: |- The business phone number of the contact person that allows an outside caller to connect directly to the contact person without any help of an attendant or operator phoneHome: type: string description: The phone number of the house or apartment where the contact person lives example: "049364112677" phoneMobile: type: string description: The number of the contact person's mobile phone postBox: type: string description: The post office box postalCode: type: string description: The postal code of the city example: "14482" secondLastName: type: string description: The second last name of the contact person secondName: type: string description: The second given name of the contact person subDivision: type: string description: The localized display name of the sub division readOnly: true example: City of Westminster subDivisionCode: type: string description: The sub division code example: "020" title: type: string description: The (personal) title of the contact person example: Ms. urn: type: string description: The URN representation of this address example: urn:address:customer:1234567890:0987654321 usage: type: object properties: empty: type: boolean description: "The usage information for the address. Every bit in the returned\ \ set marks a specific usage type: [invoice-to, ship-to, ship-from, service-to,\ \ install-to]. If a bit is set, the address may be used for the specific\ \ purpose mapped to this bit. By default, all values are set to true." customFields: type: object additionalProperties: type: object description: The address OrderWarrantyRO_v1: required: - product type: object properties: product: type: string description: The Product representing the gift wrap. readOnly: true price: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" customFields: type: object additionalProperties: type: object description: Describes a warranty assigned to the line item. OrderShippingMethodRO_v1: type: object properties: attributes: type: array readOnly: true items: $ref: "#/components/schemas/AttributeRO_v1" deliveryTimeMax: type: object properties: years: type: integer format: int32 months: type: integer format: int32 days: type: integer format: int32 zero: type: boolean negative: type: boolean units: type: array items: type: object properties: durationEstimated: type: boolean duration: type: object properties: seconds: type: integer format: int64 zero: type: boolean nano: type: integer format: int32 negative: type: boolean positive: type: boolean timeBased: type: boolean dateBased: type: boolean chronology: type: object properties: id: type: string calendarType: type: string isoBased: type: boolean description: "The maximum time the delivery will take when selecting this\ \ shipping method (in ISO-8601 period format). Note that because the delivery\ \ time depends on the shipping bucket, it will only be returned if request\ \ from the bucket." readOnly: true example: P7D deliveryTimeMin: type: object properties: years: type: integer format: int32 months: type: integer format: int32 days: type: integer format: int32 zero: type: boolean negative: type: boolean units: type: array items: type: object properties: durationEstimated: type: boolean duration: type: object properties: seconds: type: integer format: int64 zero: type: boolean nano: type: integer format: int32 negative: type: boolean positive: type: boolean timeBased: type: boolean dateBased: type: boolean chronology: type: object properties: id: type: string calendarType: type: string isoBased: type: boolean description: "The minimum time the delivery will take when selecting this\ \ shipping method (in ISO-8601 period format). Note that because the delivery\ \ time depends on the shipping bucket, it will only be returned if request\ \ from the bucket." readOnly: true example: P3D description: type: string description: The shipping method's localized description. readOnly: true example: Delivered to you 3-7 business days after we process your order. digitalDelivery: type: boolean description: Whether this shipping method is a digital delivery method (e. g. for e-mail delivery). readOnly: true id: type: string description: The shipping method's unique identifier. readOnly: true example: STD_GROUND name: type: string description: The name of an element readOnly: true example: Standard Ground shippingCosts: $ref: "#/components/schemas/PriceRO_v1" shortName: type: string description: The shipping method's localized short Name. readOnly: true example: Int'l Express Delivery. customFields: type: object additionalProperties: type: object description: Describes a shipping method that has been selected as delivery option. ConstraintRO_v1: required: - message type: object properties: message: type: string description: The message text of the constraint readOnly: true description: A constraint of a parameter responses: "200": description: OK "201": description: Created "202": description: Accepted "204": description: No Content "205": description: Reset Content "206": description: Partial Content "300": description: Multiple Choices "301": description: Moved Permanently "302": description: Found "303": description: See Other "304": description: Not Modified "305": description: Use Proxy "307": description: Temporary Redirect "308": description: Permanent Redirect "400": description: Bad Request "401": description: Unauthorized "402": description: Payment Required "403": description: Forbidden "404": description: Not Found "405": description: Method Not Allowed "406": description: Not Acceptable "407": description: Proxy Authentication Required "408": description: Request Timeout "409": description: Conflict "410": description: Gone "411": description: Length Required "412": description: Precondition Failed "413": description: Request Entity Too Large "414": description: Request-URI Too Long "415": description: Unsupported Media Type "416": description: Requested Range Not Satisfiable "417": description: Expectation Failed "428": description: Precondition Required "429": description: Too Many Requests "431": description: Request Header Fields Too Large "451": description: Unavailable For Legal Reasons "500": description: Internal Server Error "501": description: Not Implemented "502": description: Bad Gateway "503": description: Service Unavailable "504": description: Gateway Timeout "505": description: HTTP Version Not Supported "511": description: Network Authentication Required parameters: loc: name: loc in: path description: "The locale ID (submitted as optional matrix parameter ```;loc=```).\ \ If omitted, the priority is as follows (from high to low): Locale ID parameter,\ \ user's default locale, site's default locale. The available locales depend\ \ on your individual Intershop Commerce Management installation. Use IANA\ \ language definitions for languages and regions and combine them using an\ \ underscore, e.g., ```en_US```." required: false style: matrix schema: type: string description: "The locale ID (submitted as optional matrix parameter ```;loc=```).\ \ If omitted, the priority is as follows (from high to low): Locale ID parameter,\ \ user's default locale, site's default locale. The available locales depend\ \ on your individual Intershop Commerce Management installation. Use IANA\ \ language definitions for languages and regions and combine them using\ \ an underscore, e.g., ```en_US```." default: en_US examples: en_US: description: English (United States) value: en_US fr_FR: description: French (France) value: fr_FR de_DE: description: German (Germany) value: de_DE x-matrixParamPath: / cur: name: cur in: path description: "The currency code (submitted as optional matrix parameter ```;cur=```).\ \ If omitted, the site's or user's default currency is used." required: false style: matrix schema: type: string description: "The currency code (submitted as optional matrix parameter ```;cur=```).\ \ If omitted, the site's or user's default currency is used." default: USD examples: FJD: description: Fiji Dollar value: FJD MXN: description: Mexican Peso value: MXN STD: description: São Tomé / Príncipe Dobra value: STD LVL: description: Latvian Lats value: LVL SCR: description: Seychelles Rupee value: SCR CDF: description: Congolese Franc value: CDF BBD: description: Barbados Dollar value: BBD GTQ: description: Guatemalan Quetzal value: GTQ CLP: description: Chilean Peso value: CLP HNL: description: Honduran Lempira value: HNL UGX: description: Ugandan Shilling value: UGX ZAR: description: South African Rand value: ZAR TND: description: Tunisian Dinar value: TND BSD: description: Bahamian Dollar value: BSD SLL: description: Sierra Leonean Leone value: SLL SDG: description: Sudanese Pound value: SDG IQD: description: Iraqi Dinar value: IQD CUP: description: Cuban Peso value: CUP GMD: description: Gambian Dalasi value: GMD TWD: description: New Taiwan Dollar value: TWD RSD: description: Serbian Dinar value: RSD ZRZ: description: Zaire value: ZRZ DOP: description: Dominican Peso value: DOP KMF: description: Comoro Franc value: KMF MYR: description: Malaysian Ringgit value: MYR FKP: description: Falkland Islands Pound value: FKP XOF: description: CFA Franc BCEAO value: XOF GEL: description: Lari value: GEL UYU: description: Uruguayan Peso value: UYU MAD: description: Moroccan Dirham value: MAD CVE: description: Cape Verde Escudo value: CVE TOP: description: Tongan Pa'anga value: TOP AZN: description: Azerbaijanian Manat value: AZN OMR: description: Omani Rial value: OMR PGK: description: Papua New Guinean Kina value: PGK KES: description: Kenyan Shilling value: KES SEK: description: Swedish Krona value: SEK BTN: description: Ngultrum value: BTN UAH: description: Ukrainian Hryvnia value: UAH GNF: description: Guinea Franc value: GNF ERN: description: Nakfa value: ERN MZN: description: Mozambican Metical value: MZN SVC: description: Salvadoran Colón value: SVC ARS: description: Argentine Peso value: ARS QAR: description: Qatari Riyal value: QAR IRR: description: Iranian Rial value: IRR NLG: description: Dutch Guilder value: NLG MRO: description: Mauritanian Ouguiya value: MRO CNY: description: Yuan Renminbi value: CNY THB: description: Thai Baht value: THB UZS: description: Uzbekistani Som value: UZS XPF: description: CFP Franc value: XPF BDT: description: Bangladeshi Taka value: BDT LYD: description: Libyan Dinar value: LYD BMD: description: Bermudian Dollar value: BMD KWD: description: Kuwaiti Dinar value: KWD PHP: description: Philippine Peso value: PHP RUB: description: Russian Ruble value: RUB PYG: description: Paraguayan Guarani value: PYG ISK: description: Iceland Krona value: ISK JMD: description: Jamaican Dollar value: JMD GWP: description: Guinea Peso value: GWP BEF: description: Belgian Franc value: BEF ESP: description: Spanish Peseta value: ESP COP: description: Colombian Peso value: COP MKD: description: Denar value: MKD USD: description: US Dollar value: USD DZD: description: Algerian Dinar value: DZD PAB: description: Panamanian Balboa value: PAB SGD: description: Singapore Dollar value: SGD ETB: description: Ethiopian Birr value: ETB KGS: description: Som value: KGS SOS: description: Somali Shilling value: SOS VEF: description: Venezuelan Bolivar Fuerte value: VEF VUV: description: Vanuatu Vatu value: VUV LAK: description: Lao Kip value: LAK BND: description: Brunei Dollar value: BND ZMK: description: Zambian Kwacha value: ZMK XAF: description: CFA Franc BEAC value: XAF LRD: description: Liberian Dollar value: LRD ATS: description: Austrian Schilling value: ATS CHF: description: Swiss Franc value: CHF HRK: description: Croatian Kuna value: HRK ITL: description: Italian Lira value: ITL ALL: description: Albanian Lek value: ALL DJF: description: Djibouti Franc value: DJF MTL: description: Maltese Lira value: MTL TZS: description: Tanzanian Shilling value: TZS VND: description: Vietnamese Dong value: VND AUD: description: Australian Dollar value: AUD ILS: description: New Israeli Sheqel value: ILS GHS: description: Ghanaian Cedi value: GHS GYD: description: Guyanese Dollar value: GYD KPW: description: North Korean Won value: KPW BOB: description: Boliviano value: BOB KHR: description: Cambodian Riel value: KHR MDL: description: Moldovan Leu value: MDL IDR: description: Indonesian Rupiah value: IDR KYD: description: Cayman Islands Dollar value: KYD AMD: description: Armenian Dram value: AMD BWP: description: Botswana Pula value: BWP SHP: description: Saint Helena Pound value: SHP TRY: description: Turkish Lira value: TRY CYP: description: Cyprus Pound value: CYP LBP: description: Lebanese Pound value: LBP TJS: description: Tajikistani Somoni value: TJS JOD: description: Jordanian Dinar value: JOD AED: description: United Arab Emirates Dirham value: AED HKD: description: Hong Kong Dollar value: HKD RWF: description: Rwanda Franc value: RWF EUR: description: Euro value: EUR LSL: description: Lesotho Loti value: LSL DKK: description: Danish Krone value: DKK CAD: description: Canadian Dollar value: CAD BGN: description: Bulgarian Lev value: BGN EEK: description: Estonian Kroon value: EEK MMK: description: Kyat value: MMK MUR: description: Mauritian Rupee value: MUR NOK: description: Norwegian Krone value: NOK SYP: description: Syrian Pound value: SYP ZWL: description: Zimbabwean Dollar value: ZWL GIP: description: Gibraltar Pound value: GIP RON: description: Romanian New Leu value: RON LKR: description: Sri Lankan Rupee value: LKR NGN: description: Nigerian Naira value: NGN CRC: description: Costa Rican Colon value: CRC CZK: description: Czech Koruna value: CZK IEP: description: Irish Pound value: IEP PKR: description: Pakistani Rupee value: PKR GRD: description: Greek Drachma value: GRD XCD: description: East Carribean Dollar value: XCD ANG: description: Netherlands Antillian Guilder value: ANG HTG: description: Haitian Gourde value: HTG BHD: description: Bahraini Dinar value: BHD SIT: description: Slovenian Tolar value: SIT PTE: description: Portuguese Escudo value: PTE BPP: description: Bonus Point Price value: BPP KZT: description: Kazakhstani Tenge value: KZT SRD: description: Surinam Dollar value: SRD SZL: description: Swazi Lilangeni value: SZL LTL: description: Lithuanian Litas value: LTL SAR: description: Saudi Riyal value: SAR TTD: description: Trinidad and Tobago Dollar value: TTD YER: description: Yemeni Rial value: YER MVR: description: Maldivian Rufiyaa value: MVR AFN: description: Afghani value: AFN BPV: description: Bonus Point Value value: BPV INR: description: Indian Rupee value: INR AWG: description: Aruban Florin value: AWG KRW: description: South Korean Won value: KRW NPR: description: Nepalese Rupee value: NPR JPY: description: Japanese Yen value: JPY MNT: description: Mongolian Tugrik value: MNT AOA: description: Angolan Kwanza value: AOA PLN: description: Polish Złoty value: PLN GBP: description: Pound Sterling value: GBP SBD: description: Solomon Islands Dollar value: SBD HUF: description: Hungarian Forint value: HUF BYR: description: Belarussian Ruble value: BYR LUF: description: Luxembourgian Franc value: LUF BIF: description: Burundi Franc value: BIF MWK: description: Malawian Kwacha value: MWK MGA: description: Malagasy Ariary value: MGA FIM: description: Finnish Mark value: FIM BZD: description: Belize Dollar value: BZD DEM: description: Deutsche Mark value: DEM BAM: description: Convertible Marks value: BAM EGP: description: Egyptian Pound value: EGP MOP: description: Macanese Pataca value: MOP NAD: description: Namibian Dollar value: NAD SKK: description: Slovakian Krona value: SKK NIO: description: Cordoba Oro value: NIO PEN: description: Peruvian Nuevo Sol value: PEN NZD: description: New Zealand Dollar value: NZD WST: description: Samoan Tala value: WST TMT: description: Turkmenistani Manat value: TMT FRF: description: French Franc value: FRF BRL: description: Brazilian Real value: BRL x-matrixParamPath: / regionals: name: regionals in: path required: false style: matrix schema: type: object properties: loc: type: string description: The locale ID example: en_US cur: type: string description: The currency code example: EUR x-matrixParamPath: / pgid: name: pgid in: path description: "The personalization group identifier, submitted as matrix parameter\ \ ```;pgid=```. Required if you want to work with customer-specific\ \ content." required: false style: matrix schema: type: string description: "The personalization group identifier, submitted as matrix parameter\ \ ```;pgid=```. Required if you want to work with customer-specific\ \ content." example: FUOGrzQ_VjORpGaN8DRGmLLE0000 example: FUOGrzQ_VjORpGaN8DRGmLLE0000 spgid: name: spgid in: path description: "The secure personalization group identifier, submitted as matrix\ \ parameter ```;spgid=```. Required if you want to work with customer-specific\ \ content." required: false style: matrix schema: type: string description: "The secure personalization group identifier, submitted as matrix\ \ parameter ```;spgid=```. Required if you want to work with customer-specific\ \ content." example: FUOGrzQ_VjORpGaN8DRGmLLE0000 example: FUOGrzQ_VjORpGaN8DRGmLLE0000 securitySchemes: bearerAuth: type: http description: "Bearer token authentication. A request contains a header field\ \ in the form of authorization: ```Bearer ```, where is a string\ \ generated by an authentication service in response to a login request." scheme: bearer bearerFormat: JWT basicAuth: type: http description: "Basic access authentication. In basic authentication, a request\ \ contains a header field in the form of authorization: ```Basic ```,\ \ where credentials is the Base64 encoding of ID and password joined by a\ \ single colon :." scheme: basic authToken: type: apiKey description: User authentication token to authenticate the request. The token is a string generated by the ICM server in the same header in every response of an REST endpoint. name: authentication-token in: header x-apiID: order_v100 x-origin-class: "com.intershop.component.rest.capi.resource.RootResource,com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.order.OrderListResource,com.intershop.sellside.rest.common.capi.resource.order.OrderResource,com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.payment.PaymentItemResource,com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.lineitem.LineItemItemResource,com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.lineitem.LineItemItemResource,com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.payment.PaymentItemResource,com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.payment.PaymentItemResource,com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.payment.PaymentItemResource,com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.payment.PaymentItemResource,com.intershop.sellside.rest.order.v1.capi.resource.payment.PaymentItemResource" x-apiMediaType: application/vnd.intershop.order.v1+json x-strict-apiMediaType: "true"