---
id: 'dc5321fe10c16f324dd7e9c3b25be884'
title: 'Publishing Catalog Categories'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32301A'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:38.544063+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/32301A

# Publishing Catalog Categories

In data replication environments, catalog managers can publish catalog categories from the editing system to the target system on a fine-grained base. To do so:
-
Navigate to the category level at which you want to work.
Select the intended management context from the context selection box, then select Catalogs | Catalogs. Then click the catalog and category names until you reach the intended category level.

-
Select the intended category.
Select the checkbox of the category that you intend to publish to the target system.

-
Click Publish to Live System.
This displays the list of configured target systems.

-
Select the intended target system and click Finish.
The category is replicated to the selected target system.


## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.