---
id: 'ddec1c3f8f2f41f60d78b880df260504'
title: 'Overview'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/27839E'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:40:20.860389+00:00'
---
The present page serves as an overview for the topic. All available documents for the topic can be found here.

For every promotion a specific budget can be defined. This also contains options like taking promotions offline when the budget is exceeded or sending notifications at certain budget remains.

Furthermore a promotion has a specific priority in an attempt to define the right order if multiple promotions are applied in the web shop. In addition a promotion can be set to be combinable with other promotions.

For details refer to the following documents:

First of all every promotion contains basic information such as name, ID, a description and activation date. These are set during the creation of a promotion. ** **

For details refer to our [Online Help](https://docs.intershop.com/icm/7.10/olh/icm/en/):

By specifying a target group, the promotion is only applicable for certain users of the web shop. For information on customer segment assignment refer to the following documents:

Every promotion requires one or more discount rules, which consist of promotion conditions and promotion discounts. With promotion conditions it is also possible to manage inclusions and exclusions for promotions, e.g. for products or entire categories.

A special type of promotion is the cashback promotion, where a certain amount is credited to the customer after the purchase. This can also be achieved by using discount rules.

Besides, a custom dynamic message can be created for every promotion rule, which is then displayed in the web store. It is a marketing tool to encourage the consumer to spend a little more money in order to receive some kind of benefit.

For details refer to the following documents:

With the checkbox on the top of the general promotion setting, the promotion can be enabled or disabled. Further parameters on activation status and accessibility of the promotion are discussed in "Concept - Promotion Activation Status and Accessibility" and the corresponding cookbook.

A promotions accessibility in the web store can also be set with promotion codes. The web shop user can enter a specific promotion code in order to activate a promotion. " Concept - Promotion Codes” gives more details on creation, management and redemption of codes.

For configuring promotion codes, various settings are available, for example, how often a promotion code can be redeemed. This count is checked among other things during the checkout, where all promotion codes in the basket have to be validated.

For details refer to the following documents:

The system uses the general lead locale for all applications. It is defined by the *usedAsLeadLocale* flag (true|false) at a locale entry in *<IS.INSTANCE.SHARE>/system/config/cluster/localization.properties*.

Note

Promotions are quite often region-specific. Intershop assumes most web shop operators use entirely different promotions due to different laws and standards, taxes, currencies, languages etc.

Therefore, the defined lead locale is not a fallback locale for non-existing promotion data.

The following video tutorials cover important tasks from basic promotion creation to more complex tasks such as creating promotion messages, combining discount rules or setting up a cashback promotion.

[Video Tutorial - Promotions Part 1 - Promotion Creation (valid to 7.10)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1833543093/Video+Tutorial+-+Promotions+Part+1+-+Promotion+Creation+valid+to+7.10)

[Video Tutorial - Promotions Part 2 - Promotion Messaging (valid to 7.10)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1833543130/Video+Tutorial+-+Promotions+Part+2+-+Promotion+Messaging+valid+to+7.10)

[Video Tutorial - Promotions Part 3 - Promotion Banner (valid to 7.10)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1833543146/Video+Tutorial+-+Promotions+Part+3+-+Promotion+Banner+valid+to+7.10)

[Video Tutorial - Promotions Part 4 - Promotion Detail Text (valid to 7.10)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1833543151/Video+Tutorial+-+Promotions+Part+4+-+Promotion+Detail+Text+valid+to+7.10)

[Video Tutorial - Promotions Part 5 - Promotion Discount Rule Message (valid to 7.10)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1833543165/Video+Tutorial+-+Promotions+Part+5+-+Promotion+Discount+Rule+Message+valid+to+7.10)

[Video Tutorial - Promotions Part 6 - Multiple Promotion Discount Rules (valid to 7.10)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1833543170/Video+Tutorial+-+Promotions+Part+6+-+Multiple+Promotion+Discount+Rules+valid+to+7.10)

[Video Tutorial - Promotions Part 7 - Use Cases (valid to 7.10)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1833543185/Video+Tutorial+-+Promotions+Part+7+-+Use+Cases+valid+to+7.10)

If there are any ambiguities in the terms used, the following glossary can be helpful.

Term | Description |
|---|---|
application level exclusion | A group of products or categories which are not considered by each promotion of the application. |
bucket | In the shipping context, a bucket is a maximum subset of cart items. All of them are shipped to the same address with the same shipping method. |
budget | A promotion can be limited by a budget. The budget is reduced each time the promotion is applied. |
budget source | A reference where the budget comes from. |
budget notification | The according settings are required for sending notification e-mails. |
category inclusion group | A group of categories which is considered by a promotion. |
category exclusion group | A group of categories which is |
category select wizard | A wizard to select categories in a hierarchical representation. |
category search wizard | A wizard to search for categories. |
custom priority/rank | A promotion priority that is explicitly set by the promotion manager. |
action | A discount or rebate. |
condition | Trigger of an action. |
dynamic message | A message that describes to the consumer what to do to benefit from the promotion. |
placeholder | A message part that is replaced when displayed in storefront: the |
predefined priority/rank | Default promotion priority that is given by the selected promotion action type. |
product inclusion group | A group of products which are considered by a promotion. |
product exclusion group | A group of products which are |
product select wizard | A wizard to search for products. |
profanity check | A feature to check inserted words against a defined blacklist. |
promotion | A marketing tool to grant a discount. |
applied | A promotion which is applied to the current order. |
potential | A promotion which is on the verge of being applied. |
promotion code | A code that triggers a promotion. |
promotion code redemption | The appliance of a code to an order. |
promotion code group | An entity that represents a set of promotion codes; can hold multiple promotions. |
promotion combination | Defines whether a promotion can be combined with other ones or not. |
promotion priority/rank | Defines the calculation order of the promotions in basket. |
rule | A rule consists of: a |
single promotion code | A promotion code that does not belong to a promotion code group but to a promotion itself. |
| single use promotion | A promotion code which can only be used once for each customer. |
store level exclusion | A group of products or categories which are |
user | A person logged into the back office with permissions to change marketing import/export data. |

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.