---
id: 'dfd20f60371338ded9cdca0332cf9557'
title: 'Creating Sharing Relation'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3X2405'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:08.277988+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/3X2405

# Creating Sharing Relation

-
Select the management context (organization or sales channel) from the context selection box.
This opens the navigation bar of the management context (organization or sales channel).

-
In the navigation bar, select Content.
The Content section is opened and the overview page is displayed.

-
Select Content Sharing.
Depending on the hierarchy level of the current management context in the demand chain, this displays a list of available content sources and the number of their sharing relation targets.

-
Click the sharing relation target link.
This opens the list of all channels/applications with which the content assets are shared.

-
To add a sharing relation, click New.
This opens a list of available channels/applications that are not assigned yet.

-
Select the intended channel(s)/application(s), then click OK.
All available content assets are now shared with the selected channel(s)/application(s).


## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.