---
id: 'e153b0bfc2d743f971e7a9a2b39f91c6'
title: 'ISML Function'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/24Z773'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:23.690245+00:00'
---
This function can be used to format the result of an ISML expression. The value of an ISML expression is returned by `getValue()`

as a formatted string. The standard formatter classes control how the string is formatted.

There are three ways to control the formatter classes:

getValue( <value> ) getValue( <value>, <style> ) getValue( <value>, <formatter> )

The first example shows one of the styles in the formatter class:

<ISPRINT value="#getValue(Basket:TotalPrice,MONEY_LONG)#">

The next example shows how to specify a formatter string:

<ISPRINT value="#getValue(Offering:Weight,'#,##0.00')#">

Because neither a style nor a formatter string has been specified, the default style of the formatter class is used for formatting in the following example:

<ISPRINT value="#getValue(Purchaser:Address:Zip)#">

`value`

value = ISML Expression

Specify the ISML expression to be formatted. Usually this will be just a template variable.

`style`

style = style identifier

Specify a valid style to be used for formatting the expression result. See [Formatting Expression Results](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1775688409/Reference+-+ISML+Expressions#Reference-ISMLExpressions-FormattingExpressionResults)for a list of valid styles.

`formatter`

formatter = formatter string

Specify a formatter string to control the formatting of the expression result. See the Java documentation in *<IS.INSTANCE.DIR>\docs* for more information about creating formatter strings.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.