---
id: 'e174b9529c0894fa027408810e64deb2'
title: 'Executing Actions on Labeled Objects'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/M32722'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:45.148551+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/M32722

# Executing Actions on Labeled Objects

To execute an action on labeled objects:
-
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Mass Data Tasks | Labels.
This lists all labels in the current management context.

-
Select the intended label.
Use the checkbox to select the label that defines the object set to which the action is to be applied.

-
In the row of the selected label, click the Edit All button in the Action column.
This button is only available if the label has been assigned to objects.

-
Select an action.
-
Click Next.
This starts different sequences depending on the task to be performed. For example, to start an export process, you have to provide the name of the export file.

-
Complete the pages as required, then click Finish to trigger the action.
This completes the operation for the selected labeled objects.


## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.