---
id: 'e2ce4661c6f02f6752ca1fab16027f05'
title: 'Cookbook'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/X27327'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:36:09.845221+00:00'
---
Note

Intershop recommends to use Gradle Tools 2.11 and ICM 7.8 for new projects. For active projects Intershop recommends the update to Gradle Tools version 2.11. Please see [Public Release Notes - Gradle Tools - Version 2.11](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1811759208/Public+Release+Notes+-+Gradle+Tools+-+Version+2.11) for migration steps.


This cookbook describes in full detail how to create the required CI infrastructure. This document provides detailed examples based on Jenkins as CI server and Subversion for version control. In addition, the cookbook also describes how to set up the required users and permissions.

Note

This cookbook requires Intershop Gradle tools version 2.7. Previous versions of this document show how to deal with the

This document replaces [Cookbook - Setup of CI Infrastructure (valid to Gradle Tools 2.3)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1808476315).

Since Intershop 7.6 delivers maven artifacts, it is necessary to reconfigure existing infrastructure. Read more at [Cookbook - Setup of CI Infrastructure (valid to Gradle Tools 2.7)#Migration](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Cookbook-SetupofCIInfrastructure(validtoGradleTools2.7)-Migration).

The Intershop Gradle Tools and this document make no strong assumptions which artifact repository server, continuous integration server (CI server) or version control system (VCS) have to be used. This cookbook nonetheless provides examples for using Sonatype Nexus, Jenkins and Subversion (SVN).

Note

The recipes in this cookbook are made for a specific ICM version in combination with specific Intershop Gradle Tools.

Since the bootstrap of the Intershop Gradle Tools defines your project's directory structure and different versions of the Intershop Gradle Tools differ regarding their plugins you have to ensure to use a valid combination of ICM and Intershop Gradle Tools.

For detailed version dependency information refer to [Reference - CI Dependencies of Intershop Commerce Management](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1812647144/Reference+-+CI+Dependencies+of+Intershop+Commerce+Management).

For more detailed information on which plugins are available/deprecated for which Intershop Gradle Tools version refer to:

This is an overview of all necessary components:

The order of the recipes describes the way to set up a CI environment with all the necessary components. Some recipes can be executed in parallel or may be executed multiple times.

| Phrase | Meaning |
|---|---|
| Version Control System (VCS) | Also known as source control, source code management systems (SCM), or revision control systems (RCS). VCS is a mechanism for keeping multiple versions of your files, so that when you modify a file you can still access the previous revisions. |
| Artifact Repository | Place, where build and package software components are located. Provide a common interface to a dependency management system. |
| Code Analysis | Process to analyze source code to calculate metrics, find bugs, etc. |
| Continuous Delivery Pipeline | Sometimes called Deployment Pipeline, describes the stages, which code artifacts runs through source to production system. |
| System Component | A software package of different code artifacts and files, that have to be deployed together. |
| System Component Set | Is a container for system components, that needs to be build and branched together. |
| Assembly | An assembly references one or more system components residing in the same or a configured artifact repository in order to deploy or deliver them together. |
| Build Process | Compiles and packages files and code artifacts from a source project to deployable artifacts. |
| Publish Process | The process which transfers the deployable artifacts to a configured artifact repository. |
| Assembly Process | This process combines several system components to an assembly. |
| Deployment Process | This process extracts files and code artifacts from an artifact repository and applies the configuration. |
| Project Gradle Distribution | This is a customized Gradle distribution with the preconfigured artifact repositories and Gradle plugins. |
| Gradle Plugin | A Gradle plugin packages up reusable pieces of build logic, which can be used across many different projects and builds. |
| Project Gradle Plugin | This is a Gradle plugin which contains special corporate respectively project settings. |
| Corporate Plugin | The term is used as a synonym for Project Gradle Plugin. |
| Gradle Extension Object | Java Bean compliant class holding configurations for Gradle plugins. |
| Gradle Wrapper | The Gradle Wrapper is the preferred way of starting a Gradle build. The wrapper is a batch script on Windows, and a shell script for other operating systems. When you start a Gradle build via the wrapper, Gradle will be automatically downloaded and used to run the build. See for more information The Gradle Wrapper in the Gradle documentation (
|
| Intershop Cluster | A number of hosts of different types serving an Intershop 7. |
| Cluster Node | One separately deployable part of an Intershop cluster. A host can run multiple nodes of one Intershop cluster. |

[Standardizing And Administering Your Enterprise Build Environment](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SJNgaPCHqnM)

This section is a short overview what is changed in context of this document. For migrations related to the product's structure itself please see the migration guide [Guide - 7.6 Build Changes](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1811753255/Guide+-+7.6+Build+Changes).

Note

To use the bootstrap package for the CI setup in version 2.7.0 or newer (delivered with Gradle Tools 2.7 or newer), these changes are also required.

As Intershop 7.6 contains Maven artifacts, it is necessary to reconfigure existing infrastructure. Follow the steps described in recipe [Configure Artifact Repository Server](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Cookbook-SetupofCIInfrastructure(validtoGradleTools2.7)-ArtifactRepo), to provide the needed repositories.

There is a new CI Bootstrap version which comes with changes for a project setup. Generate these files and merge them into existing projects that should run on Intershop Commerce Management 7.6. To get the generated files follow the recipe [Create Sources From Intershop Templates](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Cookbook-SetupofCIInfrastructure(validtoGradleTools2.7)-TemplateSources). Copy the content of the generated assembly and component set project into your existing projects to use the updated corporate Gradle distribution.

Finally the CI build plan configuration needs also be adapted. Please see recipe [Setup CI Build For Project Artifacts](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Cookbook-SetupofCIInfrastructure(validtoGradleTools2.7)-ProjectArtifacts).

The artifact repository server stores artifacts. Artifacts are uploaded by the build server and downloaded by development environments, the build server and demo/production deployments. The build engineer resp. developer should set up and configure this server at the beginning of a project. So, which artifact repository servers are available and which configuration is required to run the Intershop build, assembly and deployment tools?

The following artifact repository servers are available and work with the Intershop continuous delivery tools:

Example

See the discussion for an [example using Sonatype Nexus](https://knowledge.intershop.com#ArtifactRepoNexusExample).

Choose an artifact repository server and perform the following steps:

A repository server can hold multiple repositories. Each repository is reachable via a URL of the form `<repository base URI>/<repository ID>`

, e.g., *http://nexus/repositories/releases*.

Create/configure the following repositories:

| ID | Usage | Comment |
|---|---|---|
| jcenter | For Maven artifacts available from Bintray JCenter. (Proxy for
|

ishreleases

ishreleases is the predecessor to the proxy-based ishrepo and was used to host Intershop releases that were not delivered via Intershop's public repository. **You do not need to create this repository** when working only with Intershop releases that are delivered via public repository (e.g., Intershop Commerce Suite 7.6).

Download and install Sonatype Nexus:

| URL |
|

This is the overview of available repositories in an installation before any changes:

The following repositories are necessary for all build and deployment processes:

| Name | ID | Repostiory Type | Remote Storage Location | Format | Remarks |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| JCenter | jcenter | Proxy |
|

If you need additional remote repositories, all these repositories should be configured in one group. This makes it easier to configure this kind of repositories in the Gradle configuration, because all different repositories are usable via one URL. These repositories provide third party artifacts from public Maven repositories. The repository server needs internet access.

The Intershop Proxy Repository in your repository makes available the artifacts according to your contract with Intershop. So you need to log on to the Intershop Knowledge Base and retrieve your credential tokens as well as the contract-id from your contract details. The contract-id has to be appended to the proxy URL in *Remote Storage Location *textfield. Then you need to check the *Authentication (optional) *box and provide your credential tokens.

Note

**Login failed for repository.intershop.de**

Although Intershop's public repository server shows a login screen when viewed in a web browser, those credentials do **not** entitle you to log into the Artifactory UI. A login attempt yields the following error message:

`Incorrect username, password or no permission to use the Artifactory User Interface.`


This is entirely intentional by design. Your credentials are suitable **only** for resolving artifacts using a proxy repository.

Note

Possible pitfall, when attempting to access files via this proxy repository. If the following message appears:`404 - Automatic routing filter rejected remote request for path `

`/com/intershop/build/infrastructure/intershop-ci-setup-bootstrap/<version>`

`/intershop-ci-setup-bootstrap-<version>`

`.zip`

from M2Repository(id=ishrepo)

Apply the following workaround.

Switch to the tab *Routing* and make sure *Discovery* is *unchecked*.

Note

In case the error message `404 - Automatic routing filter rejected remote request`

persists, please verify the configuration of the Nexus -> Views/Repositories -> Routing and adapt or delete the existing rules.

The following repositories must be created and configured as *hosted *repositories:

| Name | ID | Repository Type | Repository Policy | Deployment Policy | Usage |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Distributions | distributions | hosted | Release | Disable Redeploy | for project Gradle distribution |
| Gradle | gradle | hosted | Release | Disable Redeploy | for project Gradle plugins |
| Releases | releases | hosted | Release | Disable Redeploy | for corporate / project releases |
| Snapshots | snapshots | hosted | Snapshot | Allow Redeploy | for all artifacts from snapshot builds |

The following repository forms a repository *group* of different repositories. There are hosted repositories as well as the Intershop proxy repository in there. Create it according to the following table:

| Name | ID | Repository Type | Format | Repository Names |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Components | components | group | Maven2 | Intershop, Releases, Gradle |
| Maven all | mavenall | group | Maven2 | JCenter, Central, Intershop |

Once you created the new repository group, switch to the *configuration* tab an move the needed repository from *Available Repositories* to *Ordered Group Repositories. *

Note

The order of the assigned repositories is very important.

Components Configuration

Maven All Configuration

Note

Older releases of Intershop were imported to a repository 'Intershop Releases'. If you need this for migration projects or for other use cases, it is necessary to add this repository also to the group "Components". Please add this repository to the end of the list.

In the example we use the default admin user with the default password.

To create a deploy user:

The format of all hosted and proxy repositories is always *Maven 2*.

Note

It is necessary to configure these repositories in your artifact repository installation. After the configuration the following URLs are available.

| Name | URL |
|---|---|
| JCenter | http://<Hostname:Port>/nexus/content/repositories/jcenter |
| Central | http://<Hostname:Port>/nexus/content/repositories/central |
| Intershop | http://<Hostname:Port>/nexus/content/repositories/ishrepo |
| Maven all | http://<Hostname:Port>/nexus/content/groups/mavenall |
| Distributions | http://<Hostname:Port>/nexus/content/repositories/distributions |
| Gradle | http://<Hostname:Port>/nexus/content/repositories/gradle |
| Releases | http://<Hostname:Port>/nexus/content/repositories/releases |
| Intershop Releases | http://<Hostname:Port>/nexus/content/repositories/ishreleases |
| Components | http://<Hostname:Port>/nexus/content/groups/components |
| Snapshots | http://<Hostname:Port>/nexus/content/repositories/snapshots |

The resulting repository overview should be something like this:

For the automatic execution of all build process and the automatic installation of a new build in an integration environment it is required to have a special CI server.

How can an administrator set up this kind of server?

This is an example list of CI servers:

The listed CI servers always support remote processes, so there are different options for the execution on the server (the CI-host) or on a remote-agent (a connected client-host).

These are the extremes of all options:

Example

See the discussion for an [example using Jenkins](https://knowledge.intershop.com#CIServerJenkinsExample).

__Hardware requirements for server processes__

__Software requirements for server processes__

__Database__

Choose a CI server and perform the following steps:

Note

The CI server must support the type of your VCS. There are also corresponding plugins for special use cases of interacting with artifact repositories.

(optional)

Gradle uses a directory for caches and it is also possible to store additional configuration files in this directory. This directory can be set with the environment variable GRADLE_USER_HOME or with an additional parameter (See [Gradle Command Line](http://www.gradle.org/docs/2.0/userguide/gradle_command_line.html)). The build and assembly process provided by Intershop uses this directory for a special publishing configuration on the CI server. Therefore it is necessary to provide a directory where the CI server process can read and write files. The owner of this directory should be the CI server user.

Make that path available as environment variable `BASE_GRADLE_USER_HOME`

to your CI builds.

Download and Install Jenkins:

| URL |
|

You may follow the instructions from [https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Use+Jenkins](https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Use+Jenkins), reps. [https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Installing+Jenkins](https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Installing+Jenkins).

After the server is started, you should change the admin password. Furthermore it is necessary to activate the following set of plugins:

Plugin | Description |
|---|---|
| Email-ext plugin | The CI server should be able to send e-mails, when an error has occurred in a build. This plugin extends Jenkins built in email notification functionality by giving you more control. It provides customization of 3 areas.
|
| Dashboard View | The CI server should provide the possibility for different views of the build plans. This plugin contributes a new view implementation that provides a dashboard / portal-like view for Jenkins. |
| Build Environment Plugin* | This plugin shows information about the environment of a build and gives the option to compare the environments of two builds. |
| All Changes Plugin | Shows all changes which influenced the builds of a project.
|
| EnvInject Plugin* | For configurations it is necessary to specify some environment variables. These settings must be isolated for a specific job. This plugin makes it possible to have an isolated environment for your jobs. |

The plugins marked with a star are mandatory for the following documentation.

It is necessary to add / change the following configuration settings:

Add global properties:

| Variable | Value Linux |
|---|---|
| BASE_GRADLE_USER_HOME | `/opt/intershop/build` |
| DEPLOY_USER_NAME | `deploy` |

Add global password for deployment user (see [Recipe: Configure Artifact Repository Server > User, Roles and Permissions](https://knowledge.intershop.com#repoUsersSonar))

Add password.

| Name | DEPLOY_USER_PASSWORD |
|---|---|
| Password | e.g., `admin123` |

For a project setup or development environment setup it is necessary to have scripts, configuration files and also some basic source artifacts. The sources for the following artifacts must be generated from provided templates.

How can a developer or administrator create the source artifacts from the provided Intershop template?

Meet the minimum system requirements.

See [Recipe: Configure Artifact Repository Server](https://knowledge.intershop.com#ArtifactRepo).


Check your active Java version:

>java -version java version "1.8.0_51" Java(TM) SE Runtime Environment (build 1.8.0_51-b16) Java HotSpot(TM) 64-Bit Server VM (build 25.51-b03, mixed mode)

Download the latest version of the bootstrap package for the CI setup via your proxy.

Note

**Newer versions of the Intershop Bootstrap Package**

Find the version mapping table and download links for a corresponding Intershop Commerce Management version in the [Reference - CI Dependencies of Intershop Commerce Management](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1812647144/Reference+-+CI+Dependencies+of+Intershop+Commerce+Management).

$ wget http://<your-reposerver:port>/nexus/content/repositories/ishrepo/com/intershop/build/infrastructure/intershop-ci-setup-bootstrap/3.3.0/intershop-ci-setup-bootstrap-3.3.0.zip

(new-object System.Net.WebClient).DownloadFile('http://<your-reposerver:port>/nexus/content/repositories/ishrepo/com/intershop/build/infrastructure/intershop-ci-setup-bootstrap/3.3.0/intershop-ci-setup-bootstrap-3.3.0.zip', '<target dir>\intershop-ci-setup-bootstrap-3.3.0.zip')

Note

**Browsing the Proxy Repository**

Due to the way the proxy mechanism is implemented by Nexus, browsing the repository may not work reliably. Do not browse the repository to find the artifact, but enter the URL directly.

This downloads the release through your previously defined proxy repository of the Intershop artifacts. Accordingly it will be also available in your repository. Alternatively, you may just copy the URL into your browser and fetch it this way. The URL above might differ from your repository configuration. On the default installation the repository base path (/nexus/content/repositories) contains the /nexus/ path, if you change it, change it here accordingly.

Unzip the the contents to a directory of your choice.

unzip intershop-ci-setup-bootstrap-*.zip -d <target directory>

`//TODO`

. Go through these lines and provide the necessary information.Run the following command inside the *intershop-ci-setup* directory to generate all source artifacts:

Note

It is important to specify the JAVA_HOME before you start the command.

gradlew intershopCISetupAll

./gradlew intershopCISetupAll

See the discussion for a [directory tree](https://knowledge.intershop.com#TaskOutputOverview) of the generated sources. You may also generate (or regenerate) only some of the source artifacts by running dedicated Gradle tasks, see [discussion](https://knowledge.intershop.com#TaskOutputOverview).

Add all generated sources to your VCS.

It is recommended to add them in a way that the different source artifacts can be branched independently. How to do this depends on the VCS.

Also add the *intershop-ci-setup* directory to your VCS for later regeneration of sources.

See discussion for [example commands if you use SVN](https://knowledge.intershop.com#CreateSourcesSVNExamples) as VCS.

Problems resolving artifacts

In you encounter problems resolving artifacts in this recipe, please verify your artifact repository server's configuration, including the [proxy repository's settings](https://knowledge.intershop.com#setup-ish-proxy).

`corporateName`

.`projectName`

.Output directory: Specify a directory to generate sources into in the property `setupDirectory`

.

Repository base URL: Specify the repository base URL of your artifact repository server in property `repoBaseURL`

.

`ishrepo`

repository (your proxy repository) on the marked line in the `buildscript`

section. By default all sources are generated into subdirectories of the `setupDirectory`

. You may also configure independent output directories for different types of source artifacts. See the `directories`

section of the *build.gradle* file and the following examples.

apply plugin: 'ci-setup' IntershopCISetup { directories { setupDirectory = '/home/developer/intershop-ci/sources' devOpsDir = '/home/developer/devops-resources' projectsDir = "${setupDirectory}/projects" } }

apply plugin: 'ci-setup' IntershopCISetup { directories { setupDirectory = 'C:/Users/developer/intershop-ci/sources' devOpsDir = 'C:/Users/developer/intershop-ci/devops-resources' projectsDir = "${setupDirectory}/projects" } }

The *build.gradle* file comes with default IDs for all important repositories. It is possible to rename them and add new ones. See the `repository`

section of the *build.gradle* file.

Documentation assumes default repository IDs

Use the ability to rename repositories with care. The configured IDs will be taken into account for all generated sources. This documentation however assumes the default IDs, especially for the `ishrepo`

repository.

The `repository`

section allows to adjust the version of your corporate distribution in property `distributionVersion`

.

It also allows to configure a different URL. So your corporate distribution can be downloaded by the Gradle wrapper in property `distributionURL`

. This way you can place your corporate distribution on any web server you want.

The `versions`

section configures which versions of Intershop 7, the Gradle Tools and third party components should be used. By default the latest available version of Intershop 7 available in your repository is used. You may specify different versions available in your repository.

The sections `assembly`

and `componentSet`

define names and versions of component set and assembly. Most properties have sensible default values based on `projectName`

and `corporateName`

, but you may change them. You may also adjust the initial version numbers.

The component set also contains an example component. You may adjust name and description.

Running `gradlew tasks`

shows all available tasks:

:tasks ------------------------------------------------------------ All tasks runnable from root project ------------------------------------------------------------ ... CI Server Setup tasks --------------------- ciSetup - Create all source artefacts of a CI server setup Corporate Configuration tasks ----------------------------- corporateSetup - Create all source artefacts of the corporate configuration createCorporateConfiguration - Creates a structure of the 'CorporateConfiguration' plugin. createCorporateDistribution - Creates a structure of a corporate distribution package project. createOracleComponentSet - Creates a special component set for publishing Oracle JDBC drivers Intershop CI Source tasks ------------------------- intershopCISetupAll - Create all necessary source artefacts Project Setup tasks ------------------- createDeploymentConfig - Creates a structure of a deployment configuration. createProject - Creates a structure of a project configuration with assembly, componentset and developer home. projectSetup - Create all source artefacts of a project setup ...

The resulting sources (assuming default output directories) look like this:

sources ├── devops │ ├── ci_server │ │ ├── host_configs │ │ │ └── ciserver │ │ │ └── environment.properties │ │ └── user_home │ │ ├── gradle.properties │ │ └── init.gradle │ ├── deployments │ │ └── intershop-project │ │ ├── gradle │ │ │ └── wrapper │ │ │ ├── gradle-wrapper.jar │ │ │ └── gradle-wrapper.properties │ │ ├── gradlew │ │ ├── gradlew.bat │ │ └── settings.gradle │ └── gradle │ ├── corporate-distribution │ │ ├── build.gradle │ │ ├── gradle │ │ │ └── wrapper │ │ │ ├── gradle-wrapper.jar │ │ │ └── gradle-wrapper.properties │ │ ├── gradle.properties │ │ ├── gradlew │ │ ├── gradlew.bat │ │ └── src │ │ └── init.d │ │ └── intershop-init.gradle │ └── corporate-plugins │ ├── build.gradle │ ├── corporate-configuration │ │ └── src │ │ └── main │ │ └── resources │ │ └── configuration │ │ └── corporate.properties │ ├── gradle │ │ └── wrapper │ │ ├── gradle-wrapper.jar │ │ └── gradle-wrapper.properties │ ├── gradle.properties │ ├── gradlew │ ├── gradlew.bat │ └── settings.gradle └── projects ├── intershop-project │ ├── assembly │ │ └── gradle │ │ └── wrapper │ │ ├── gradle-wrapper.jar │ │ └── gradle-wrapper.properties │ ├── componentset │ │ └── gradle │ │ └── wrapper │ │ ├── gradle-wrapper.jar │ │ └── gradle-wrapper.properties │ └── developer_home │ ├── gradle_environment.bat │ └── gradle_environment.sh └── oracleDriver └── p_oracle ├── 3rd_oracle │ ├── build.gradle │ └── staticfiles │ ├── cartridge │ │ └── lib │ └── share │ └── system │ └── config │ └── cartridges ├── build.gradle ├── gradle │ └── wrapper │ ├── gradle-wrapper.jar │ └── gradle-wrapper.properties ├── gradle.properties ├── gradlew ├── gradlew.bat ├── init.gradle └── settings.gradle

The following table shows which task generates which source artifacts. Multiple projects may share the same CI environment. Some source artifacts are global to the CI environment (corporate artifacts), others are project specific (project artifacts).

| Line | Generated by | Project or corporate artifact | Used in | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| 4-10 | `ciSetup` | corporate |
|

`createDeploymentConfig`

`createCorporateDistribution`

`createCorporateConfiguration`

`createProject`

`createOracleComponentSet`

If you use SVN as your VCS you may use the following commands to add your *intershop-ci-setup* directory and the generated sources to it.

This example assumes that:

`setupDirectory`

in Perform the following steps:

Create the following file for a list of common SVN ignores (assumed location is */home/developer/ignore.txt*):

build .gradle bin target

Add your *intershop-ci-setup-bootstrap* directory by executing:

cd /home/developer/intershop-ci # Create SVN structure svn mkdir --parents http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/intershop-ci-setup-bootstrap -m "create path for template project" svn mkdir --parents http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/intershop-ci-setup-bootstrap/branches -m "create branches folder" svn mkdir --parents http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/intershop-ci-setup-bootstrap/tags -m "create tags folder" # Import sources to SVN svn import intershop-ci-setup-bootstrap http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/intershop-ci-setup-bootstrap/trunk -m "add intershop-ci-setup configuration" # Make your local folder a working copy svn co --force http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/intershop-ci-setup-bootstrap/trunk intershop-ci-setup-bootstrap svn revert -R intershop-ci-setup # Add ignore properties (see ignore.txt) svn propset svn:ignore -F /home/developer/ignore.txt intershop-ci-setup svn commit intershop-ci-setup-bootstrap -m "add svn ignore"

Add your corporate plugin configuration and corporate distribution by executing:

cd /home/developer/intershop-ci/sources/devops/gradle # Create SVN structure svn mkdir --parents http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/gradle -m "create path for Gradle projects" svn mkdir --parents http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/gradle/corporate-distribution/branches -m "create svn structure" svn mkdir --parents http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/gradle/corporate-distribution/tags -m "create svn structure" svn mkdir --parents http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/gradle/corporate-plugins/branches -m "create svn structure" svn mkdir --parents http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/gradle/corporate-plugins/tags -m "create svn structure" # Import sources to SVN svn import corporate-distribution http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/gradle/corporate-distribution/trunk -m "add corporate distribution" svn import corporate-plugins http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/gradle/corporate-plugins/trunk -m "add multiproject corporate-plugins" # Make your local folder a working copy svn co --force http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/gradle/corporate-plugins/trunk corporate-plugins svn revert -R corporate-plugins svn co --force http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/gradle/corporate-distribution/trunk corporate-distribution svn revert -R corporate-distribution # Add ignore properties (see ignore.txt) svn propset svn:ignore -F /home/developer/ignore.txt corporate-plugins svn commit corporate-plugins -m "add svn ignore" svn propset svn:ignore -F /home/developer/ignore.txt corporate-distribution svn commit corporate-distribution -m "add svn ignore"

Add the project artifacts by executing (assuming project name is 'corp_project'):

cd /home/developer/intershop-ci/sources/projects # Create SVN structure svn mkdir --parents http://ciserver/svn/intershop/projects/corp_project -m "create path for project" svn mkdir --parents http://ciserver/svn/intershop/projects/corp_project/branches -m "create svn structure" svn mkdir --parents http://ciserver/svn/intershop/projects/corp_project/tags -m "create svn structure" # Import sources to SVN svn import corp_project http://ciserver/svn/intershop/projects/corp_project/trunk -m "add project" # Make your local folder a working copy svn co --force http://ciserver/svn/intershop/projects/corp_project/trunk corp_project svn revert -R corp_project # Add ignore properties (see ignore.txt) svn propset svn:ignore -F /home/developer/ignore.txt corp_project svn commit corp_project -m "add svn ignore"

Add the Oracle JDBC Drivers Component Set by executing:

cd /home/developer/intershop-ci/sources/projects/oracleDriver # Create SVN structure svn mkdir --parents http://ciserver/svn/intershop/projects/oracleDriver -m "create path for project oracle driver" svn mkdir --parents http://ciserver/svn/intershop/projects/oracleDriver/branches -m "create svn structure" svn mkdir --parents http://ciserver/svn/intershop/projects/oracleDriver/tags -m "create svn structure" # Import sources to SVN svn import p_oracle http://ciserver/svn/intershop/projects/oracleDriver/trunk -m "add Oracle JDBC driver project" # Make your local folder a working copy svn co --force http://ciserver/svn/intershop/projects/oracleDriver/trunk . svn revert -R . # Add ignore properties (see ignore.txt) svn propset svn:ignore -F /home/developer/ignore.txt . svn commit . -m "add svn ignore"

Add demo deployment scripts (assuming `projectName`

is 'corp_project') by executing:

cd /home/developer/intershop-ci/sources/devops/deployments # Create SVN structure svn mkdir --parents http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/deployments -m "create path for deployment projects" svn mkdir --parents http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/deployments/corp_project/branches -m "create svn structure" svn mkdir --parents http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/deployments/corp_project/tags -m "create svn structure" # Import sources to SVN svn import corp_project http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/deployments/corp_project/trunk -m "add deployment configuration" # Make your local folder a working copy svn co --force http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/deployments/corp_project/trunk corp_project svn revert -R corp_project # Add ignore properties (see ignore.txt) svn propset svn:ignore -F /home/developer/ignore.txt corp_project svn commit corp_project -m "add svn ignore"

Add CI server user home scripts and host configuration by executing:

cd /home/developer/intershop-ci/sources/devops/ci_server # Create SVN structure svn mkdir --parents http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/ci_server/user_home -m "create path for ci_server user home files and directories" svn mkdir --parents http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/ci_server/host_configs -m "create path for ci_server host_configs files and directories" svn mkdir --parents http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/ci_server/host_configs/branches -m "create svn structure" svn mkdir --parents http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/ci_server/host_configs/tags -m "create svn structure" svn mkdir --parents http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/ci_server/user_home/branches -m "create svn structure" svn mkdir --parents http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/ci_server/user_home/tags -m "create svn structure" # Import sources to SVN svn import user_home http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/ci_server/user_home/trunk -m "add GRADLE user home configuration for ci build processes" svn import host_configs http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/ci_server/host_configs/trunk -m "add host specific configuration for ci assembly process" # Make your local folder a working copy svn co --force http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/ci_server/user_home/trunk user_home svn revert -R user_home svn co --force http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/ci_server/host_configs/trunk host_configs svn revert -R host_configs # Add ignore properties (see ignore.txt) svn propset svn:ignore -F /home/developer/ignore.txt user_home svn commit user_home -m "add svn ignore" svn propset svn:ignore -F /home/developer/ignore.txt host_configs svn commit host_configs -m "add svn ignore"

Starting with Intershop Commerce Management Suite 7.6 (B2C`,`

B2X) the delivered assemblies no longer include cartridges that define the storefront applications and do not provide the storefront functionality, meaning the view layer with the content model. Instead Intershop provides the Responsive Starter Store. This includes the storefront parts as a source cartridges component set and the according assemblies that can be used as a blue print to set up customer projects.

After creating the project source structure from the Intershop templates it is necessary to fill the project with the specific artifacts, especially those that make up the storefront. The Responsive Starter Store is a good starting point, that provides the functionality, code artifacts and demo content of a standard responsive storefront.

How can a build engineer or developer set up a project based on the Responsive Starter Store?

See the following recipes:

Note

The following listings contain diff-style where "<DIFF>" leads the listing title.

This describes changes on files where "`-String=original line of code;`

" represents the original line of code that should be replaced with "`+String=replaced line of code`

'".

Download the latest version of the Responsive Starter Store.

Copy the contents of the Responsive Starter Store component set into your projects component set folder.

Set up the initialization cartridges.

Copy the contents of the fitting Responsive Starter Store assembly to your projects assembly folder.

See the following sections for details.

Note

Example: Responsive Starter Store version 1.0.1:

Download the Responsive Starter Store component set `(a_responsive`

).

http://<your-reposerver:port>/nexus/content/repositories/ishrepo/com.intershop.public.source/a_responsive/1.0.1/zips/a_responsive-zip-src-1.0.1.zip

Download an assembly of the Responsive Starter Store.

Either the the assembly for B2C (`inspired-b2c`

), or

http://<your-reposerver:port>/nexus/content/repositories/ishrepo/com.intershop.public.source/inspired-b2c/1.0.1/zips/inspired-b2c-zip-src-1.0.1.zip

The assembly that includes B2C and B2B `(inspired-b2x`

)

http://<your-reposerver:port>/nexus/content/repositories/ishrepo/com.intershop.public.source/inspired-b2x/1.0.1/zips/inspired-b2x-zip-src-1.0.1.zip

Content Overview of the Responsive Starter Store component set:

a_responsive ├── .settings ├── app_sf_responsive ├── app_sf_responsive_b2b ├── app_sf_responsive_b2c ├── app_sf_responsive_cm ├── app_sf_responsive_costcenter ├── app_sf_responsive_smb ├── as_responsive ├── as_responsive_b2b ├── demo_responsive ├── demo_responsive_b2b ├── demo_responsive_catalog ├── demo_responsive_content ├── demo_responsive_ocst ├── demo_responsive_search ├── .classpath ├── .project ├── build.gradle ├── extbuild.gradle ├── gradle.properties ├── gradlew ├── gradlew.bat └── settings.gradle | base storefront cartridge additional B2B functionality cartridge base storefront cartridge base storefront cartridge additional B2B functionality cartridge base storefront cartridge base storefront cartridge additional B2B functionality cartridge demo content cartridge additional B2B demo content cartridge demo content cartridge demo content cartridge demo content cartridge demo content cartridge |

Place the content into the working copy of your projects component set folder (that was generated via CI bootstrap before). Rest assured that there are no conflicting files in your projects component set folder that otherwise need to be overwritten.

Long path names on Windows

After copying the contents of the `a_responsive`

component set into your projects component set folder some files need to be changed to fit your projects configuration.

Replace "`a_responsive`

" with your projects component set name in the following files:

// define root project name -rootProject.name = 'a_responsive' +rootProject.name = 'corp_componentset'

<projectDescription> - <name>a_responsive</name> + <name>corp_componentset</name>

Replace the "`com.intershop.responsive`

" group with your projects component set group in the following file:

description 'Components Responsive Starter Store Applications' -group = 'com.intershop.responsive' +group = 'com.company' subprojects { - group = 'com.intershop.responsive' + group = 'com.company'

In the same file delete the repositories definition in the `buildscript {`

}-block (the repositories are set via your corporate distribution):

buildscript { - repositories { - maven { - url 'http://nexus/nexus/content/repositories/gradle-releases/' - } - } ... }

Replace the version number with a version number fitting to your projects component set and change the Commerce Management version in the following file:

# project settings -version=1.0.1 +version=1.0.0 -filter.com.intershop.assembly.commerce_management_b2x = 7.6.0.0 +filter.com.intershop.assembly.commerce_management_b2x = 7.6.1.1

Remove not needed cartridges.


The table gives an overview of the needed cartridges for the different assembly types.

| Assembly Type | Storefront Cartridges | Demo/Init Cartridges |
|---|---|---|
| B2C |
|
|
| B2X | B2C Storefront Cartridges + | B2C Demo/Init Cartridges +`demo_responsive_b2b` |

The Responsive Starter Store provides a set of demo cartridges that can be kept as starting point for the projects initialization cartridges or they can be removed completely.

| Cartridge | Description |
|---|---|
`demo_responsive` | Demo organization structure for inSPIRED with inTRONICS, inTRONICS Business and Myers |
`demo_responsive_catalog` | Catalogs with categories and products for the inSPIRED organization |
`demo_responsive_content` | CMS demo content (including campaigns and promotions) for the inSPIRED organization |
`demo_responsive_search` | Search demo configuration |
`demo_responsive_ocst` | Additional demo content of the OCST (Contact Center) |
`demo_responsive_b2b` | B2B specific content for the inTRONICS Business channel |


In case they are used as init cartridges it is probably useful to rename the cartridges from "`demo_...`

" to "`init_...`

" or some other project naming scheme.

The renaming needs to be done for the cartridges folder name and in the *.project* file of the cartridge. The display name and description of the cartridge can be renamed in the *build.gradle*.

Content Overview of the Responsive Starter Store assembly:

inspired-[b2c|b2x] ├── src ├── build.gradle ├── extbuild.gradle ├── gradle.properties ├── gradlew ├── gradlew.bat └── settings.gradle

Place the content into the working copy of your projects assembly folder (that was generated via CI bootstrap before). Rest assured that there are no conflicting files in your projects assembly folder that otherwise need to be overwritten.

With the Responsive Starter Store two different assemblies are provided `inspired-b2c`

and `inspired-b2x`

. Each of the two assemblies can be used as the blue print for the custom project. Its content needs to be copied to your projects assembly folder. After copying some files need to be changed to fit your projects configuration.

Replace "`inspired-b2c`

" or "`inspired-b2x`

" with your projects assembly name in the following file:

-rootProject.name= 'inspired-b2c' +rootProject.name= 'corp_assembly'

Replace the "`com.intershop.responsive`

" group with your projects group and the version number fitting to your project in the following file:

-group = 'com.intershop.responsive' +group = 'com.company' -version = '1.0.1' +version = '1.0.0' assembly { cartridges { - include(*(storefrontCartridges.collect {"com.intershop.responsive:$it"}), in:[development, test, production]) + include(*(storefrontCartridges.collect {"com.company:$it"}), in:[development, test, production]) - include (*(initCartridges.collect {"com.intershop.responsive:$it"}), in: init) + include (*(initCartridges.collect {"com.company:$it"}), in: init) } }

In the same file delete the repositories definition in the `buildscript {`

}-block (the repositories are set via your corporate distribution):

buildscript { - repositories { - maven { - url 'http://nexus/nexus/content/repositories/gradle-releases/' - } - } ... }

Replace the "`com.intershop.responsive`

" group with your projects group, the component set name "`a_responsive`

" with your projects component set name with the correct version number and change the Commerce Management version in the following file:

# componentsets with the same live cycle -filter.com.intershop.responsive.a_responsive = 1.0.1%suffix% +filter.com.company.corp_componentset = 1.0.0%suffix% -filter.com.intershop.assembly.commerce_management_b2x = 7.6.0.0 +filter.com.intershop.assembly.commerce_management_b2x = 7.6.1.1

`%suffix%`

– will be substituted with "-local", "-SNAPSHOT" or ".<BuildNo>" depending on the environment where it is built.

As mentioned earlier the demo cartridges of the Responsive Starter Store can be used as blue print for the projects initialization cartridges. For that they should be renamed and fitted to your projects needs.

Regarding the storefront cartridges of the Responsive Starter Store (*app_sf_responsive*, *app_sf_responsive_cm*,` ...`

) there are several options on how you can use and customize them in your projects. Those options are described below.

In any case it might be necessary to not only adapt the *app_sf_responsive* cartridges but also the application type definitions of *as_responsive*. If additional project cartridges are added they need to be added to the application type definition too.

This is the above described approach of copying the relevant storefront cartridges of the Responsive Starter Store to your projects component set.

Any customization can either be done within additional project cartridges, with the possibilities overloading and overwriting provides. This is pretty much the same as before, except for the fact that also the Responsive Starter Store storefront cartridges are part of the project cartridges set.

This fact, that the Responsive Starter Store storefront cartridges are part of your projects sources, leads to the second customization option. It is now possible to make any customization directly in the cartridges that were provided by Intershop since they are now project cartridges. You have pretty much the same control over these sources as an Intershop developer has when developing the Responsive Starter Store. Any parts can be changed or removed or added within the cartridges of the Responsive Starter Store. This gives you for example full control over the provided CMS content model, making it possible to simply add new call parameters where needed or removing not wanted components without the need of using the overwrites mechanism.

Using the Responsive Starter Store storefront cartridges as they are is probably the simplest approach. And in case the customization is done within additional project cartridges this is probably the easiest approach for later migrations to new Responsive Starter Store versions too.

In any case newer versions of the Responsive Starter Store cartridges are not getting updated automatically but will be provided as sources too and it is up to the project to decide if and how they will update their currently used Responsive Starter Store cartridges. Less customization in those cartridges will probably make the update/migration easier.

The Responsive Starter Store is intended to be a blue print for a storefront project. The provided cartridges can be used the way they are regarding their naming and their content or they can be customized in any way wanted.

In case you want to create several independent application types that are initially based on the Responsive Starter Store or if you want to create your own storefront cartridge set based on the Responsive Starter Store but with your own naming conventions, you have to copy and rename the *app_sf_responsive* cartridges to transform them them into your own cartridges.

For this you basically have to search for all references to *app_sf_responsive* and alike in the Responsive Starter Store cartridges and replace all with your own cartridge naming. This goes for references in the content model files (*.pagelet2), in pipelines, in ISML templates and configuration files.

Also the CMS import files located in sites folder of *demo_responsive_content* needs to be adapted to the new naming.

After this everything should work as before but with the new naming.

In case you want to use or create your own storefront cartridge set that is totally different from the Responsive Starter Store you can also remove the *app_sf_responsive* cartridges completely from your project component set. In that case you might only use the component set configuration files of the Responsive Starter Store but not the cartridges to set up your project.

You would build your storefront only on the basic storefront functionality that is provided by the Commerce Management assembly you are using. Basically this gives you only the storefront functionality of the *sld_ch_sf_base* cartridge. The whole storefront view layer would need to be provided by your own cartridges.

Multiple projects may share the same CI environment. Some artifacts are required once for the CI environment and independently of projects (corporate artifacts).

Which steps are necessary to provide these artifacts for all other processes?

See the following recipes:

See the following sections for details.

Example

See the discussion for an [example using Jenkins and SVN](https://knowledge.intershop.com#CorporateArtifactsJenkinsExample).

Provide host-specific configuration for deployments during assembly build:

Set up an automated process for building the corporate distribution. Configure the process to:

Execute the following commands:

cd corporate-distribution sh ./gradlew clean publish -PRepoUserLogin=<deploy user login> -PRepoUserPasswd=<deploy user password>

cd corporate-distribution gradlew clean publish -PRepoUserLogin=<deploy user login> -PRepoUserPasswd=<deploy user password>

This process should be triggered only manually (e.g., not automatically by polling the VCS), see [discussion](https://knowledge.intershop.com#CorporateArtifactsDiscussionGradleUserHome).

Set up an automated process for building the corporate plugin configuration. Configure the process to:


Execute the following commands:


cd corporate-plugins sh ./gradlew clean publish -PRepoUserLogin=<deploy user login> -PRepoUserPasswd=<deploy user password>

cd corporate-plugins gradlew clean publish -PRepoUserLogin=<deploy user login> -PRepoUserPasswd=<deploy user password>

This process should be triggered automatically upon detecting changes in the VCS.

Set up an automated process for building the Oracle JDBC drivers component set. Configure the process to:

Execute the following commands:

cd p_oracle sh ./gradlew clean publish -I init.gradle -PRepoUserLogin=<deploy user login> -PRepoUserPasswd=<deploy user password>

cd p_oracle gradlew clean publish -I init.gradle -PRepoUserLogin=<deploy user login> -PRepoUserPasswd=<deploy user password>

This process should be triggered only manually (e.g., not automatically by polling the VCS), see [discussion](https://knowledge.intershop.com#CorporateArtifactsDiscussionGradleUserHome).

The build processes on the CI server need a GRADLE_USER_HOME with a configuration for publishing to a remote repository (see [Publishing to a Remote Repository](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1783302828/Cookbook+-+Gradle+Build+Tools#Cookbook-GradleBuildTools-PublishingRemoteRepository) in [Cookbook - Gradle Build Tools](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1783302828/Cookbook+-+Gradle+Build+Tools)). Intershop provides a template of the necessary files for publishing to a remote repository: *init.gradle* and *gradle.properties*. These files are located in *<sources>/devops/ci_server/user_home*.

The CI job will copy these files to a directory on the machine outside CI standard directories. So all other processes can use this directory for the `GRADLE_USER_HOME`

. Gradle uses this directory also for caching of artifacts. There is no automatic deletion functionality for this kind of caches. Therefore, it is necessary to run periodically an automatic clean up process.

The following scripts replaces the contents of *<BASE_GRADLE_USER_HOME>/gradle_user_home* by the contents of the folder *user_home*. Processes holding handles to *<BASE_GRADLE_USER_HOME>/gradle_user_home* will keep using the same directory.

Replace `<build number>`

by a number provided by the CI server that grows in subsequent executions of the automated process. (Jenkins and Bamboo offer a variable `${BUILD_NUMBER}`

for that purpose.)

export HOMEDIR=${BASE_GRADLE_USER_HOME}/gradle_user_home mkdir ${HOMEDIR}_<build number> cp ${WORKSPACE}/user_home/* ${HOMEDIR}_<build number> if [ -d ${HOMEDIR} ]; then mv ${HOMEDIR} ${HOMEDIR}_before_<build number> \ && mv ${HOMEDIR}_<build number> ${HOMEDIR} \ && rm -rf ${HOMEDIR}_before_<build number> else mv ${HOMEDIR}_<build number> ${HOMEDIR} fi

set HOMEDIR=%BASE_GRADLE_USER_HOME%\gradle_user_home mkdir "%HOMEDIR%_<build number>" copy "user_home" "%HOMEDIR%_<build number>" IF EXIST "%HOMEDIR%" ( move /Y "%HOMEDIR%" "%HOMEDIR%_before_<build number>" move /Y "%HOMEDIR%_<build number>" "%HOMEDIR%" rmdir /s /Q "%HOMEDIR%_before_<build number>" ) ELSE ( move /Y "%HOMEDIR%_<build number>" "%HOMEDIR%" )

| Line | Description |
|---|---|
| 1 | Create a variable for the directory. BASE_GRADLE_USER_HOME is a global variable. See "Directory for Additional Build Directories" in
|
| 2 | Create a new directory. |
| 3 | Copy the files from source directory to new directory. |
| 5 - 7 | The old home directory will be replaced with the new one. If this step finished successfully, the old directory will be removed. |
| 9 | Runs only if there is a home directory before. |

Before rebuilding the corporate distribution always increase the version number (located in *<sources>/devops/gradle/corporate-distribution*/*gradle.properties*). After rebuilding, change the version number in the wrapper configuration (*gradle-wrapper.properties*) of all your projects.

Changes in the corporate plugin configuration are effective 24h hours after rebuilding at latest (this is Gradles default cache timeout). You can force it by passing` --refresh-dependencies`

to `gradlew`

when starting the Gradle process accessing the configuration.

Before rebuilding the Oracle JDBC Drivers component set always increase the version or build number (located in *<sources>/projects/oracleDriver/p_oracle/gradle.properties*).

This example assumes that:

Create a new build item *Corporate Distribution*:

| Parameter | Value | Description |
|---|---|---|
| Item name | corporate-distribution | The item name is also used for the directory path. Do not use spaces in this configuration. |
| Build type | Build a free-style software project | |
| Advanced Project Options | ||
| - Display Name | Corporate Distribution | This is used for the item name on the web frontend |
| Description | Creates a corporate distribution for the main project | |
| Source Code Management | Subversion | |
| - Repository URL |
|

export GRADLE_USER_HOME=${WORKSPACE}/gradle_user_home cd corporate-distribution sh ./gradlew clean publish \ -PRepoUserLogin=$DEPLOY_USER_NAME \ -PRepoUserPasswd=$DEPLOY_USER_PASSWORD

Before the build runs the old build should be deleted. Therefore, the target `clean`

is also called.

Username and password of the repository *deploy* user must be specified with the project properties `RepoUserLogin`

and `RepoUserPasswd`

.


DEPLOY_USER_PASSWORD was specified as global password.

WORKSPACE is a environment-varialbe of Jenkins.

set GRADLE_USER_HOME=%WORKSPACE%/gradle_user_home cd corporate-distribution gradlew clean publish ^ -PRepoUserLogin=%DEPLOY_USER_NAME% ^ -PRepoUserPasswd=%DEPLOY_USER_PASSWORD%

... :clean UP-TO-DATE :downloadGradle :customGradleDistribution :generateDescriptorFileForIvyPublication :publishIvyPublicationToIvy Distribution RepositoryRepository Upload http://ciserver/nexus/content/repositories/distributions/gradle-dist/corporate_gradle_2.7/1.0.0.0/corporate_gradle_2.7-1.0.0.0-bin.zip Upload http://ciserver/nexus/content/repositories/distributions/gradle-dist/corporate_gradle_2.7/1.0.0.0/corporate_gradle_2.7-1.0.0.0-bin.zip.sha1 Upload http://ciserver/nexus/content/repositories/distributions/gradle-dist/corporate_gradle_2.7/1.0.0.0/ivy.xml Upload http://ciserver/nexus/content/repositories/distributions/gradle-dist/corporate_gradle_2.7/1.0.0.0/ivy.xml.sha1 :publish BUILD SUCCESSFUL Total time: 18.544 secs Finished: SUCCESS

Corporate distribution in the artifact repository if using Nexus:

Create a new build item *Corporate Plugin Configuration*:

| Parameter | Value | Description |
|---|---|---|
| Item name | corporate-plugins | The item name is also used for the directory path. Do not use spaces in this configuration. |
| Build type | Build a free-style software project | |
| Advanced Project Options | ||
| - Display Name | Corporate Plugin Configuration | This is used for the item name on the web frontend |
| Description | Creates a corporate plugin configuration for the main project | |
| Source Code Management | Subversion | |
| - Repository URL |
|

export GRADLE_USER_HOME=${WORKSPACE}/gradle_user_home cd corporate-plugins sh ./gradlew clean publish \ -PRepoUserLogin=$DEPLOY_USER_NAME \ -PRepoUserPasswd=$DEPLOY_USER_PASSWORD

Before the build runs the old build should be deleted. Therefore, the target `clean`

is also called.

Username and password of the repository *deploy* user must be specified with the project properties `RepoUserLogin`

and `RepoUserPasswd`

.

DEPLOY_USER_PASSWORD was specified as global password.

DEPLOY_USER_NAME was specified as global property.

WORKSPACE is a environment-varialbe of Jenkins.

set GRADLE_USER_HOME=%WORKSPACE%\gradle_user_home cd corporate-plugins gradlew clean publish ^ -PRepoUserLogin=%DEPLOY_USER_NAME% ^ -PRepoUserPasswd=%DEPLOY_USER_PASSWORD%

... :corporate-configuration:clean UP-TO-DATE :corporate-configuration:generateDescriptorFileForIvyPublication :corporate-configuration:compileJava UP-TO-DATE :corporate-configuration:compileGroovy UP-TO-DATE :corporate-configuration:processResources :corporate-configuration:classes :corporate-configuration:jar :corporate-configuration:publishIvyPublicationToIvyRepository Upload http://ciserver/nexus/content/repositories/gradle/com.intershop.build.gradle/corporate-configuration/1.0.0.0.20140702141143/jars/corporate-configuration-jar-1.0.0.0.20140702141143.jar Upload http://ciserver/nexus/content/repositories/gradle/com.intershop.build.gradle/corporate-configuration/1.0.0.0.20140702141143/jars/corporate-configuration-jar-1.0.0.0.20140702141143.jar.sha1 Upload http://ciserver/nexus/content/repositories/gradle/com.intershop.build.gradle/corporate-configuration/1.0.0.0.20140702141143/ivys/ivy-1.0.0.0.20140702141143.xml Upload http://ciserver/nexus/content/repositories/gradle/com.intershop.build.gradle/corporate-configuration/1.0.0.0.20140702141143/ivys/ivy-1.0.0.0.20140702141143.xml.sha1 :corporate-configuration:publish BUILD SUCCESSFUL Total time: 11.662 secs Finished: SUCCESS

Corporate plugin configuration in the artifact repository if using Nexus:

Create a new build item *Gradle User Home*:

| Parameter | Value | Description |
|---|---|---|
| Item name | gradle_user_home | The item name is also used for the directory path. Do not use spaces in this configuration. |
| Build type | Build a free-style software project | |
| Prepare an environment for the run | [selected] | |
| - Keep Jenkins Environment Variables | [selected] | |
| - Keep Jenkins Build Variables | [selected] | |
| Advanced Project Options | ||
| - Display Name | GRADLE_USER_HOME | This is used for the item name on the web frontend |
| Description | Creates/Updates GRADLE_USER_HOME folder | |
| Source Code Management | Subversion | |
| - Repository URL |
|

export HOMEDIR=${BASE_GRADLE_USER_HOME}/gradle_user_home mkdir ${HOMEDIR}_${BUILD_NUMBER} cp ${WORKSPACE}/user_home/* ${HOMEDIR}_${BUILD_NUMBER} if [ -d ${HOMEDIR} ]; then mv ${HOMEDIR} ${HOMEDIR}_before_${BUILD_NUMBER} \ && mv ${HOMEDIR}_${BUILD_NUMBER} ${HOMEDIR} \ && rm -rf ${HOMEDIR}_before_${BUILD_NUMBER} else mv ${HOMEDIR}_${BUILD_NUMBER} ${HOMEDIR} fi

Creates the `gradle_user_home`

-directory.

BUILD_NUMBER is a environment-variable of the Jenkins-item.

WORKSPACE is a environment-varialbe of Jenkins.

set HOMEDIR=%BASE_GRADLE_USER_HOME%\gradle_user_home mkdir "%HOMEDIR%_%BUILD_NUMBER%" copy "%WORKSPACE%\user_home" "%HOMEDIR%_%BUILD_NUMBER%" IF EXIST "%HOMEDIR%" ( move /Y "%HOMEDIR%" "%HOMEDIR%_before_%BUILD_NUMBER%" move /Y "%HOMEDIR%_%BUILD_NUMBER%" "%HOMEDIR%" rmdir /s /Q "%HOMEDIR%_before_%BUILD_NUMBER%" ) ELSE ( move /Y "%HOMEDIR%_%BUILD_NUMBER%" "%HOMEDIR%" )

Create a new build item *Oracle JDBC Driver component set*:

| Parameter | Value | Description |
|---|---|---|
| Item name | p_oracle | The item name is also used for the directory path. Do not use spaces in this configuration. |
| Advanced Project Options | ||
| - Display Name | Oracle JDBC Driver component set | This is used for the item name on the web frontend |
| Build type | Build a free-style software project | |
| Description | Create Oracle JDBC Driver component set | |
| Source Code Management | Subversion | |
| - Repository URL | http://ciserver/svn/intershop/projects/oracleDriver/trunk/p_oracle | URL of the corporate distribution project |
| - Credentials | Username / Password | Select Add and configure this parameter in the dialog. |
| - Local module directory | p_oracle | This is the target path in the workspace directory for the the Subversion checkout. |
| - Repository browser | Collabnet | Type of a repository browser |
| - - URL | http://ciserver/svn/intershop/projects/oracleDriver/trunk/p_oracle | URL for the repository browser of this project |
| Build Triggers | Poll SCM | |
| - Schedule | H/15 * * * * | The build is triggered manually only. Before the build can be restarted, the module must be deleted from the artifact repository. |
| Build Environment | ||
| - Inject passwords to the build as environment variables | [selected] | Password will be defined for the environment |
| -- Global passwords | [selected] | Global configured password will be used |
| Build | Execute Shell / Execute Windows batch command | On a Linux server use Execute Shell. On Windows it is necessary to select Execute Windows batch command. |
| - Command (Linux) | Publish release of p_oracleexport GRADLE_USER_HOME=${WORKSPACE}/gradle_user_home cd p_oracle sh ./gradlew clean publish -I init.gradle \ -PRepoUserLogin=$DEPLOY_USER_NAME \ -PRepoUserPasswd=$DEPLOY_USER_PASSWORD | Before the build runs the old build should be deleted. Therefore the target DEPLOY_USER_PASSWORD was specified as global password. DEPLOY_USER_NAME was specified as global property. WORKSPACE is a environment-varialbe of Jenkins. |
| - Command (Windows) | Publish release of p_oracleset GRADLE_USER_HOME=%WORKSPACE%/gradle_user_home cd p_oracle gradlew clean publish -I init.gradle ^ -PRepoUserLogin=%DEPLOY_USER_NAME% ^ -PRepoUserPasswd=%DEPLOY_USER_PASSWORD% |

... :3rd_oracle:clean :3rd_oracle:zipShare UP-TO-DATE :3rd_oracle:generateDescriptorFileForIvyPublication :3rd_oracle:publishIvyPublicationToReleasesRepository Upload http://ciserver/nexus/content/repositories/releases/com.intershop/3rd_oracle/12.1.0.2.0.0/jars/ucp-jar-12.1.0.2.0.0.jar Upload http://ciserver/nexus/content/repositories/releases/com.intershop/3rd_oracle/12.1.0.2.0.0/jars/ucp-jar-12.1.0.2.0.0.jar.sha1 Upload http://ciserver/nexus/content/repositories/releases/com.intershop/3rd_oracle/12.1.0.2.0.0/jars/ons-jar-12.1.0.2.0.0.jar Upload http://ciserver/nexus/content/repositories/releases/com.intershop/3rd_oracle/12.1.0.2.0.0/jars/ons-jar-12.1.0.2.0.0.jar.sha1 Upload http://ciserver/nexus/content/repositories/releases/com.intershop/3rd_oracle/12.1.0.2.0.0/jars/ojdbc6-jar-12.1.0.2.0.0.jar Upload http://ciserver/nexus/content/repositories/releases/com.intershop/3rd_oracle/12.1.0.2.0.0/jars/ojdbc6-jar-12.1.0.2.0.0.jar.sha1 Upload http://ciserver/nexus/content/repositories/releases/com.intershop/3rd_oracle/12.1.0.2.0.0/ivys/ivy-12.1.0.2.0.0.xml Upload http://ciserver/nexus/content/repositories/releases/com.intershop/3rd_oracle/12.1.0.2.0.0/ivys/ivy-12.1.0.2.0.0.xml.sha1 :3rd_oracle:publish :generateDescriptorFileForIvyPublication Download http://ciserver/nexus/content/repositories/releases/com.intershop/3rd_oracle/12.1.0.2.0.0/ivys/ivy-12.1.0.2.0.0.xml :publishIvyPublicationToReleasesRepository Upload http://ciserver/nexus/content/repositories/releases/com.intershop.set/p_oracle/12.1.0.2.0.0/ivys/ivy-12.1.0.2.0.0.xml Upload http://ciserver/nexus/content/repositories/releases/com.intershop.set/p_oracle/12.1.0.2.0.0/ivys/ivy-12.1.0.2.0.0.xml.sha1 :publish BUILD SUCCESSFUL Total time: 13.974 secs Finished: SUCCESS

Oracle JDBC Driver component set in the artifact repository if using Nexus:

After changes on the code base it is a good practice to run an integration build with all automatic tests to provide fast feedback for the developer team. Furthermore, it is necessary to check the impact of the changes on the initialization of the database.

How can a administrator or developer set up a continuous integration process for all project artifacts?

See the following recipes:

Example

See the discussion for an [example using Jenkins and SVN](https://knowledge.intershop.com#ProjectArtifactsJenkinsExample).

Set up up an automated process for a snapshot build of the component set. Configure the process to:

Execute the following commands:

export GRADLE_USER_HOME=${BASE_GRADLE_USER_HOME}/gradle_user_home cd <component set name> sh ./gradlew clean build publish --refresh-dependencies -PRepoUserLogin=<deploy user login> -PRepoUserPasswd=<deploy user password>

set GRADLE_USER_HOME=%BASE_GRADLE_USER_HOME%\gradle_user_home cd <component set name> gradlew clean build publish --refresh-dependencies -PRepoUserLogin=<deploy user login> -PRepoUserPasswd=<deploy user password>

This process should be triggered automatically upon detecting changes in the VCS.

Set up an automated process for a snapshot build of the assembly. Configure the process to:

Execute the following commands:

export COMPONENT_SET=<organization of component set>.<name of component set> export COMPONENT_SET_VERSION=<version of component set without build number/snapshot suffix> export GRADLE_USER_HOME=${BASE_GRADLE_USER_HOME}/gradle_user_home export ENVIRONMENT_PROPS=<workspace directory>/host_configs/<name of executing host>/environment.properties cd <assembly name> sh ./gradlew clean dbinit build publish --refresh-dependencies -PreleaseWithDump=true -PRepoUserLogin=<deploy user login> \ -PRepoUserPasswd=<deploy user password> -PbuildEnvironmentProperties=${ENVIRONMENT_PROPS} -PtestEnvironmentProperties=${ENVIRONMENT_PROPS}

set COMPONENT_SET=<organization of component set>.<name of component set> set COMPONENT_SET_VERSION=<version of component set without build number/snapshot suffix> set GRADLE_USER_HOME=%BASE_GRADLE_USER_HOME%\gradle_user_home set ENVIRONMENT_PROPS=<workspace directory>\host_configs\<name of executing host>\environment.properties cd <assembly name> gradlew clean dbinit build publish --refresh-dependencies -PreleaseWithDump=true -PRepoUserLogin=<deploy user login> ^ -PRepoUserPasswd=<deploy user password> -PbuildEnvironmentProperties="%ENVIRONMENT_PROPS%" -PtestEnvironmentProperties="%ENVIRONMENT_PROPS%"

This process should be triggered automatically upon detecting changes in the VCS.

Set up an automated process for a release build of component set and assembly. Configure the process to:

Execute the following commands:

export BUILD_NO=.`date +%Y%m%d%H%M%S` export GRADLE_USER_HOME=${BASE_GRADLE_USER_HOME}/gradle_user_home export COMPONENT_SET=<organization of component set>.<name of component set> export COMPONENT_SET_VERSION=<version of component set without build number/snapshot suffix> export ENVIRONMENT_PROPS=<workspace directory>/host_configs/<name of executing host>/environment.properties export PUBLISH_STATUS=release cd <component set name> sh ./gradlew clean build publish --refresh-dependencies -PRepoUserLogin=<deploy user login> -PRepoUserPasswd=<deploy user password> cd <assembly name> sh ./gradlew clean dbinit build publish --refresh-dependencies -PreleaseWithDump=true -PRepoUserLogin=<deploy user login> \ -PRepoUserPasswd=<deploy user password> -PbuildEnvironmentProperties=${ENVIRONMENT_PROPS} -PtestEnvironmentProperties=${ENVIRONMENT_PROPS}

set BUILD_NO=.%date:~6,4%%date:~3,2%%date:~0,2%%time:~0,2%%time:~3,2%%time:~6,2% set GRADLE_USER_HOME=%BASE_GRADLE_USER_HOME%\gradle_user_home set COMPONENT_SET=<organization of component set>.<name of component set> set COMPONENT_SET_VERSION=<version of component set without build number/snapshot suffix> set ENVIRONMENT_PROPS=<workspace directory>\host_configs\<name of executing host>\environment.properties set PUBLISH_STATUS=release cd <component set name> gradlew clean build publish --refresh-dependencies -PRepoUserLogin=<deploy user login> -PRepoUserPasswd=<deploy user password> cd <assembly name> gradlew clean dbinit build publish --refresh-dependencies -PreleaseWithDump=true -PRepoUserLogin=<deploy user login> ^ -PRepoUserPasswd=<deploy user password> -PbuildEnvironmentProperties="%ENVIRONMENT_PROPS%" -PtestEnvironmentProperties="%ENVIRONMENT_PROPS%"

Note

The output of the BUILD_NO expression depends on the date/time configuration of the Windows system. The example-expression is based on the following output of `%date%`

and `%time%`

:

+ echo %date% 31.12.2015 + echo %time% 08:45:40,20

So the expression (`%date:~6,4%%date:~3,2%%date:~0,2%%time:~0,2%%time:~3,2%%time:~6,2%`

) returns the value "`20151231084540`

".

This process should be triggered only manually (e.g., not automatically by polling the VCS).

Long running processes with higher resource requirements (dbinit, dbmigrate) should run on remote agents. That makes monitoring of this processes more efficient.

It is possible to disable the test of the database during the assembly build. To do so remove the parameter `releaseWithDump`

from the script or change the value of this parameter to false. This reduces the time for the build, but the database initialization is not tested. Furthermore, the database export file will not be published and developers can not use this artifact for faster initialization of the database of their environment.

For a fast developer feedback we suggest to use snapshot builds. Project component set and assembly will be build in different steps.

The result of these build steps represents a temporary status. It is not possible to deploy this on a server for further testing (see section [Release Build](https://knowledge.intershop.com#ReleaseBuild) below).

The feedback time after changes depends on the performance of the build machine, the database and the amount of data (products, catalogs, customer) for the database initialization.

For the snapshot process it is possible to publish the artifacts to a local file based repository like a developer, but this makes it impossible to distribute processes over different machines.

It is also possible to use only the release process and instead of this to run the release process more often. In this case more artifacts will be published to the artifact repository and a clean up process is necessary.

The release build runs time triggered once per day or per week or on request. All project artifacts of this release should use the same version and build number. Cartridges, components and assembly use the same version. This kind of build can be used for the installation on the integration machine or for long running manual tests.

It is possible to run a temporary installation based on the snapshot build, but it is not possible to reproduce this build result. The result of a release build is reproducible. For the storage of this more build information the *init.script* contains a task `writeBuildInformation`

. This information can be used for hand over to the next processes or for build documentation. It is also possible to extend this script.

This example assumes that:

Create a new build item *Component set corp_componentset*:

| Parameter | Value | Description |
|---|---|---|
| Item name | componentset_webshop | The item name is also used for the directory path. Do not use spaces in this configuration. |
| Build type | Build a free-style software project | |
| Prepare an environment for the run | [selected] | |
| - Keep Jenkins Environment Variables | [selected] | |
| - Keep Jenkins Build Variables | [selected] | |
| Advanced Project Options | ||
| - Display Name | Component Set corp_componentset | This is used for the item name on the web front end. |
| Description | Create a snapshot build of the component set. | |
| Source Code Management | Subversion | |
| - Repository URL | http://ciserver/svn/intershop/projects | URL of the project component set |
| - Credentials | Username / Password | Select Add and configure this parameter in the dialog. |
| - Local module directory | corp_componentset | This is the target path in the workspace directory for the the Subversion checkout. |
| - Repository browser | Collabnet | Type of a repository browser |
| - - URL | http://ciserver/viewvc/intershop/projects/corp_project/trunk/corp_componentset | URL for the repository browser of this project |
| Build Triggers | Poll SCM | |
| - Schedule | H/5 * * * * | The job will check the VCS for changes every 5 minutes. |
| Build Environment | ||
| - Inject passwords to the build as environment variables | [selected] | Password will be defined for the environment. |
| -- Global passwords | [selected] | Global configured password will be used. |
| Build | Execute Shell / Execute Windows batch command | On a Linux server use Execute Shell. On Windows it is necessary to select Execute Windows batch command. |
| - Command (Linux) | Publish snapshot of component setexport GRADLE_USER_HOME=${BASE_GRADLE_USER_HOME}/gradle_user_home cd corp_componentset sh ./gradlew clean build publish --refresh-dependencies \ -PRepoUserLogin=$DEPLOY_USER_NAME \ -PRepoUserPasswd=$DEPLOY_USER_PASSWORD | Provide the GRADLE_USER_HOME (Global property BASE_GRADLE_USER_HOME is used). Change to the component set folder. DEPLOY_USER_PASSWORD was specified as global password. DEPLOY_USER_NAME was specified as global property. |
| - Command (Windows) | Publish snapshot of component setset GRADLE_USER_HOME=${BASE_GRADLE_USER_HOME}/gradle_user_home cd corp_componentset gradlew clean build publish --refresh-dependencies ^ -PRepoUserLogin=%DEPLOY_USER_NAME% ^ -PRepoUserPasswd=%DEPLOY_USER_PASSWORD% |

Building in workspace /var/lib/jenkins/jobs/componentset_webshop/workspace Updating http://ciserver/svn/intershop/projects/corp_project/trunk/corp_componentset at revision '2014-07-16T16:04:20.333 +0200' At revision 43 no change for http://ciserver/svn/intershop/projects/corp_project/trunk/corp_componentset since the previous build [workspace] $ /bin/sh -xe /tmp/hudson2340063613026622480.sh + export GRADLE_USER_HOME=/opt/intershop/build/gradle_user_home + GRADLE_USER_HOME=/opt/intershop/build/gradle_user_home + cd corp_componentset + sh ./gradlew clean build publish --refresh-dependencies -PRepoUserLogin=admin -PRepoUserPasswd=**** Downloading http://ciserver/nexus/content/repositories/distributions/gradle-dist/corporate_gradle_1.8/1.0.0.0/corporate_gradle_1.8-1.0.0.0-bin.zip .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Unzipping /opt/intershop/build/gradle_user_home/wrapper/dists/corporate_gradle_1.8-1.0.0.0-bin/4kqi2io27c0nscl7hdce2ddnqr/corporate_gradle_1.8-1.0.0.0-bin.zip to /opt/intershop/build/gradle_user_home/wrapper/dists/corporate_gradle_1.8-1.0.0.0-bin/4kqi2io27c0nscl7hdce2ddnqr Set executable permissions for: /opt/intershop/build/gradle_user_home/wrapper/dists/corporate_gradle_1.8-1.0.0.0-bin/4kqi2io27c0nscl7hdce2ddnqr/gradle-1.8/bin/gradle Download http://ciserver/nexus/content/repositories/gradle/com.intershop.build.gradle/corporate-configuration/1.0.0.0.20140712231610/ivys/ivy-1.0.0.0.20140712231610.xml Download http://ciserver/nexus/content/repositories/ishreleases/com.intershop.build.gradle/corporate-plugin/1.2.0.0.20140711152402/ivys/ivy-1.2.0.0.20140711152402.xml Download http://ciserver/nexus/content/repositories/ishreleases/com.intershop.build.gradle/versioning/1.2.0.0.20140711152402/ivys/ivy-1.2.0.0.20140711152402.xml ... Download http://ciserver/nexus/content/repositories/ishreleases/com.intershop/sld_system_app/7.5.0.0.20140711190011/jars/sld_system_app-jar-7.5.0.0.20140711190011.jar ... :publish BUILD SUCCESSFUL Total time: 49.762 secs Finished: SUCCESS

Jenkins overview page:

For a better overview of the existing projects in Jenkins a separate tab *Intershop Project* was created.

Create a new build item *Assembly corporate_assembly*:

Parameter | Value | Description |
|---|---|---|
| Item name | assembly_webshop | The item name is also used for the directory path. Do not use spaces in this configuration. |
| Build type | Build a free-style software project | |
| Prepare an environment for the run | [selected] | |
| - Keep Jenkins Environment Variables | [selected] | |
| - Keep Jenkins Build Variables | [selected] | |
| - Properties Content | COMPONENT_SET=com.corporate.corp_componentset | |
| Advanced Project Options | ||
| - Display Name | Assembly corporate_assembly | This is used for the item name on the web front end. |
| Description | Create a snapshot build of the assembly. | |
| Source Code Management | Subversion | |
| - Repository URL | http://ciserver/svn/intershop/projects/corp_project/trunk/corp_assembly | URL of the project assembly. |
| - Credentials | Username / Password | Select Add and configure this parameter in the dialog. |
| - Local module directory | corporate_assembly | This is the target path in the work space directory for the the Subversion checkout. |
| - Repository URL | http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/ci_server/host_configs/trunk | URL of the configurations for the CI server. |
| - Credentials | Username / Password | Select Add and configure this parameter in the dialog. |
| - Local module directory | host_configs | This is the folder with names of hosts on which the assembly build can be executed. |
| - Repository browser | Collabnet | |
| - - URL |
|

Command (Linux)

export GRADLE_USER_HOME=${BASE_GRADLE_USER_HOME}/gradle_user_home export ENVIRONMENT_PROPS="${WORKSPACE}/host_configs/ciserver/environment.properties" # JENKINS-19222 (NODE_NAME is not defined on master) if [ "${NODE_NAME}" != "master" -a "${NODE_NAME}" != "" ] then export ENVIRONMENT_PROPS="${WORKSPACE}/host_configs/${NODE_NAME}/environment.properties" fi cd corporate_assembly sh ./gradlew clean dbinit build publish --refresh-dependencies -PreleaseWithDump=true -PRepoUserLogin=$DEPLOY_USER_NAME \ -PRepoUserPasswd=$DEPLOY_USER_PASSWORD -PbuildEnvironmentProperties=${ENVIRONMENT_PROPS} -PtestEnvironmentProperties=${ENVIRONMENT_PROPS}

Command (Windows)

set GRADLE_USER_HOME=%BASE_GRADLE_USER_HOME}%\gradle_user_home set ENVIRONMENT_PROPS=%WORKSPACE%\host_configs\ciserver\environment.properties :: JENKINS-19222 (NODE_NAME is not defined on master) IF NOT "%NODE_NAME%" == "master" IF NOT "%NODE_NAME%" == "" ( set ENVIRONMENT_PROPS=%WORKSPACE%\host_configs\%NODE_NAME%\environment.properties ) cd corporate_assembly gradlew clean dbinit build publish --refresh-dependencies -PreleaseWithDump=true -PRepoUserLogin=%DEPLOY_USER_NAME% ^ -PRepoUserPasswd=%DEPLOY_USER_PASSWORD% -PbuildEnvironmentProperties="%ENVIRONMENT_PROPS%" -PtestEnvironmentProperties="%ENVIRONMENT_PROPS%"

| Line | Comment | ||||||||||
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 1 | Provide the GRADLE_USER_HOME (Global property BASE_GRADLE_USER_HOME is used). | ||||||||||
| 2 | The default value of ENVIRONMENT_PROPS is set to the configuration of the build machine. WORKSPACE is a environment-varialbe of Jenkins. | ||||||||||
| 5 | If the process runs on a remote agent, the configuration should be changed. | ||||||||||
| 10 | Change the working directory to the assembly folder. | ||||||||||
| 11 | Run gradle including the following tasks:
The following project properties are defined:
|

... :packEncryptionConfig :publishIvyPublicationToBuildRepository SKIPPED :publishIvyPublicationToSnapshotsRepository ... :publishIvyPublicationToTestRepository SKIPPED :publishTestAssemblyPublicationToBuildRepository SKIPPED :publishTestAssemblyPublicationToSnapshotsRepository SKIPPED :publish BUILD SUCCESSFUL Total time: 40 mins 2.232 secs Finished: SUCCESS

Jenkins overview page:

For a better overview of the existing projects in Jenkins a separate tab *Intershop Project* was created. The duration of the assembly build depends on the performance of the build machine and the database.

Create a new build item *Release webshop*:

Parameter | Value | Description |
|---|---|---|
| Item name | webshop_release | The item name is also used for the directory path. Do not use spaces in this configuration. |
| Build type | Build a free-style software project | |
| Prepare an environment for the run | [selected] | |
| - Keep Jenkins Environment Variables | [selected] | |
| - Keep Jenkins Build Variables | [selected] | |
| - Properties Content | PUBLISH_STATUS=release COMPONENT_SET=com.corporate.corp_componentset | |
| Advanced Project Options | ||
| - Display Name | Release "webshop" | This is used for the item name on the web front end. |
| Description | Create the release of all artifacts of the "webshop" project. | |
| Source Code Management | Subversion | |
| - Repository URL | http://ciserver/svn/intershop/projects/corp_project/trunk/corp_componentset | URL of the project component set. |
| - Credentials | Username / Password | Select Add and configure this parameter in the dialog. |
| - Local module directory | corp_componentset | This is the target path in the workspace directory for the the Subversion checkout. |
| Source Code Management | Subversion | |
| - Repository URL | http://ciserver/svn/intershop/projects/corp_project/trunk/corp_assembly | URL of the project assembly |
| - Credentials | Username / Password | Select user and password. |
| - Local module directory | corporate_assembly | This is the target path in the workspace directory for the the Subversion checkout. |
| - Repository URL | http://ciserver/svn/intershop/devops/ci_server/host_configs/trunk | URL of the configurations for the CI server. |
| - Credentials | Username / Password | Select Add and configure this parameter in the dialog. |
| - Local module directory | host_configs | This is the folder with names of hosts on which the assembly build can be executed. |
| - Repository browser | Collabnet | |
| - - URL |
|

The following build steps must be configured:

Linux:

NEW_BUILD_NO=`date +%Y%m%d%H%M%S` echo "BUILD_NO = .${NEW_BUILD_NO}" > ${WORKSPACE}/buildno.properties

Windows:

set NEW_BUILD_NO=%date:~6,4%%date:~3,2%%date:~0,2%%time:~0,2%%time:~3,2%%time:~6,2% echo BUILD_NO = .%NEW_BUILD_NO% > %WORKSPACE%\buildno.properties

both:

| Inject environment variables - Set build no for environment | |
|---|---|
| Properties File Path | `${WORKSPACE}/buildno.properties` |

Linux:

export GRADLE_USER_HOME=${BASE_GRADLE_USER_HOME}/gradle_user_home cd corp_componentset sh ./gradlew clean publish -PRepoUserLogin=$DEPLOY_USER_NAME -PRepoUserPasswd=$DEPLOY_USER_PASSWORD

Windows:

set GRADLE_USER_HOME=${BASE_GRADLE_USER_HOME}\gradle_user_home cd corp_componentset gradlew clean publish -PRepoUserLogin=%DEPLOY_USER_NAME% -PRepoUserPasswd=%DEPLOY_USER_PASSWORD%

Linux:

export GRADLE_USER_HOME=${BASE_GRADLE_USER_HOME}/gradle_user_home export ENVIRONMENT_PROPS="${WORKSPACE}/host_configs/ciserver/environment.properties" # JENKINS-19222 (NODE_NAME is not defined on master) if [ "${NODE_NAME}" != "master" -a "${NODE_NAME}" != "" ] then export ENVIRONMENT_PROPS="${WORKSPACE}/host_configs/${NODE_NAME}/environment.properties" fi cd corporate_assembly sh ./gradlew clean dbinit build publish --refresh-dependencies -PreleaseWithDump=true -PRepoUserLogin=$DEPLOY_USER_NAME \ -PRepoUserPasswd=$DEPLOY_USER_PASSWORD -PbuildEnvironmentProperties=${ENVIRONMENT_PROPS} -PtestEnvironmentProperties=${ENVIRONMENT_PROPS}

Windows:

set GRADLE_USER_HOME=${BASE_GRADLE_USER_HOME}\gradle_user_home set ENVIRONMENT_PROPS=%WORKSPACE%\host_configs\ciserver\environment.properties :: JENKINS-19222 (NODE_NAME is not defined on master) IF NOT "%NODE_NAME%" == "master" IF NOT "%NODE_NAME%" == "" ( set ENVIRONMENT_PROPS=%WORKSPACE%\host_configs\%NODE_NAME%\environment.properties ) cd corporate_assembly gradlew clean dbinit build publish --refresh-dependencies -PreleaseWithDump=true -PRepoUserLogin=%DEPLOY_USER_NAME% ^ -PRepoUserPasswd=%DEPLOY_USER_PASSWORD% -PbuildEnvironmentProperties="%ENVIRONMENT_PROPS%" -PtestEnvironmentProperties="%ENVIRONMENT_PROPS%"

... :generateDescriptorFileForIvyPublication :packEncryptionConfig :publishIvyPublicationToBuildRepository SKIPPED :publishIvyPublicationToReleasesRepository ... :publishIvyPublicationToTestRepository SKIPPED :publishTestAssemblyPublicationToBuildRepository SKIPPED :publishTestAssemblyPublicationToReleasesRepository SKIPPED :publish BUILD SUCCESSFUL Total time: 39 mins 54.281 secs Finished: SUCCESS

That is the final Jenkins overview page:

If the repository is accessible over the public internet, it is necessary to configure the security of the repository. This recipe describes a security configuration for Sonatype Nexus.

Once you configured the basic repository the following configuration on the repository is required.

Add target privileges

| Name | Description | Repository | Repository Target |
|---|---|---|---|
| Distributions | Target Privilege Distributions | Distributions (Repo) | All (Maven 2) |
| Components | Target Privilege Components | Components (Group) | All (Maven 2) |
| Maven all | Target Privilege Maven all | Maven all (Group) | All (Maven 2) |
| Gradle | Target Privilege Gradle | Gradle (Repo) | All (Maven 2) |
| Releases | Target Privilege Releases | Releases (Repo) | All (Maven 2) |
| Intershop Releases | Target Privilege Intershop Releases | Intershop Releases (Repo) | All (Maven 2) |
| Snapshots | Target Privilege Snapshots | Snapshots (Repo) | All (Maven 2) |
| Central | Target Privilege Central | Central (Repo) | All (Maven 2) |

Add the role configuration and finish this configuration with *Save*.

| Role ID | Name | Role/Privilege Management |
|---|---|---|
| maven2-distributions-read | Role: Distributions (read) | Distributions - (read) Distributions - (view) |
| maven2-components-read | Role: Components (read) | Components - (read) Components - (view) |
| maven2-mavenall-read | Role: Maven all (Read) | Maven all - (read) Maven all - (view) |
| maven2-snapshots-read | Role: Snapshots (read) | Snapshots - (read) Snapshots - (view) |
| maven2-central-read | Role: Central (read) | Central - (read) Central - (view) |
| maven2-gradle-full | Role: Gradle (full) | Distributions - (create) Distributions - (delete) Distributions - (read) Distributions - (update) Distributions - (view) Gradle - (create) Gradle - (delete) Gradle - (read) Gradle - (update) Gradle - (view) |
| maven2-projectbuilds-full | Role: Projectbuilds (full) | Releases - (create) Releases - (delete) Releases - (read) Releases - (update) Releases - (view) Snapshots - (create) Snapshots - (delete) Snapshots - (read) Snapshots - (update) Snapshots - (view) |
| maven2-ishreleases-full | Role: Intershop Releases (full) | Intershop Releases - (create) Intershop Releases - (delete) Intershop Releases - (read) Intershop Releases - (update) Intershop Releases - (view) |



Add the role configuration for a project developer and finish this configuration with *Save*.

| Role ID | Name | Role/Privilege Management |
|---|---|---|
| nexus-project-developer | Project Developer | Nexus Developer Role Role: Distributions (read) Role: Components (read) Role: Maven all (read) Role: Snapshots (read) Role: Central (read) |

Instead of separate roles for the repositories it also possible to use "Repo: All Maven2 Repositories (View)" and "Repo: All Maven2 Repositories (Read)".

Add the role configuration for a project deployment user and finish this configuration with *Save*.

| Role ID | Name | Role/Privilege Management |
|---|---|---|
| nexus-project-deployment | Project Deployment User | Nexus Deployment Role |

The role "Project Developer" is used to ensure that Project Deployment Users have the same repositories available as developers.

Add role for a special deployment user.

For special artifacts (Intershop releases, Gradle artifacts (distribution, plugins) it is possible to create an special deployment user.

Add the role configuration for a project deployment user and finish this configuration with *Save*.

| Role ID | Name | Role/Privilege Management |
|---|---|---|
| nexus-intershop-deployment | Intershop Deployment User | Nexus Deployment Role Role: Gradle (full) Role: Intershop Releases (full) |

Specify the configuration and finish the configuration with *Save*.

| Property | Value |
|---|---|
| User ID (Login) | corp_deployment |
| <admin account of this user> | |
| Status | Active |
| Password | <password for all processes> |
| Role Management | Intershop Deployment User |

Specify the configuration and finish the configuration with *Save*.

| Property | Value |
|---|---|
| User ID (Login) | prj_deployment |
| <admin account of this user> | |
| Status | Active |
| Password | <password for all processes> |
| Role Managment | Project Deployment User |

Specify the configuration and finish the configuration with *Save*.

| Property | Value |
|---|---|
| User ID (Login) | <developer account login> |
| <email of the user> | |
| Status | Active |
| Password | <password> |
| Role Managment | Project Developer |

It is necessary to extend the local *gradle.properties* or the environment settings with the necessary credentials.

**Build and Deployment on CI Server**

| Process | |
|---|---|
| For this task it is necessary to use the deployment user for corporate artifacts. Username and password is part of the command line. Examplegradlew clean publish -PRepoUserLogin=corp_deployment -PRepoUserPasswd=<passwd> |
| The result of the build will be published to the releases repository. Therefore, it is necessary to use the project deployment user. Example// this configuration is necessary for the read access export REPO_USER=prj_deployment export REPO_USER_PASSWD=<deploy user password> gradlew clean publish -I init.gradle -PRepoUserLogin=prj_deployment -PRepoUserPasswd=<passwd> |
| The result of the build will be published to the releases or snapshots repository. Therefore, it is necessary to use the project deployment user. But this process needs also read access to other repositories. Example// this configuration is necessary for the read access export REPO_USER=prj_deployment export REPO_USER_PASSWD=<deploy user password> // Project properties will be used for the write access gradlew build publish -PRepoUserLogin=prj_deployment -PRepoUserPasswd=<deploy user password> It is also possible to specify Java system properties. Example// System properties are used for read access // Project properties will be used for the write access gradlew build publish -DrepoUser=prj_deployment -DrepoUserPasswd=<deploy user password> -PRepoUserLogin=prj_deployment -PRepoUserPasswd=<deploy user password> |

**Build and Deployment on Development Machine**

The developer can also specify username and password on the command line or as an environment variable. But this is not really user friendly.

It is possible to add the login credentials in the *gradle.properties* of Gradle user home.

systemProp.repoUser = <developer account login> systemProp.repoUserPasswd = <developer account password>

User names and passwords are sent to the repository server for authentication. For security reasons the transport should be secured. Therefore, it is necessary to configure https for the server communication. It is recommended to use a certificate created by a certification authority. For private certificates it is necessary to import this in the key-store of the used JDK. This must be done on all machines, which have access to the repository - developer, build, test and production machines also.

User name and password of users must be stored as plain text on the developer machine as well on the build machine. This login and password can be used also for the login on the repository server directly. So it is also possible to change the password on this way. Sonatype provides a professional version of Nexus with costs. This version can use special tokens for the build and deployment access to the repository. It is not possible to log in to the server with this credentials.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.