---
id: 'e2edf22779fe3a795d2e44355fd27297'
title: 'Concept'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/29460C'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:36:47.322232+00:00'
---
The Intershop offering provides several types of releases. These are presented in this concept.

Our continuous releases enable a fast deployment (DevOps) of improvements, new features, and latest security enhancements/fixes.

This way our customers always have the latest version and can, thus, avoid costly upgrades.

The publishing of updates is always done according to the following principles:

The customer always retains control of the update process. This means there is a deployment window defined by the customer and a default monthly schedule for continuous releases.

It is also possible to fall back to an LTS (long term support) release schedule, meaning that releases are applied every six months.

Intershop essentially offers two types of release cycles, namely, monthly releases and long term support (LTS) releases.

Furthermore, there are hotfix releases which apply for both types.

There are monthly releases that are planned in advance. As soon as a monthly release is introduced, the previous monthly release is considered outdated.

[Hotfixes ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Concept-ContinuousReleases(validto7.10)-hotfix)are only available for the current continuous release.

Long term support releases are released every six months. In contrast to monthly releases, these Long Term Support Releases are supplied with hotfixes for a year.

No new features will be made available within this release line.

Hotfix releases may be necessary between regular releases for urgent security or bug fixes.

Typically, hotfixes:

With regard to releases, please note the following:

IOM release management focuses on the "keep current" approach, i.e. the latest release is preferred whenever possible.

This allows our customers to:

In return, Intershop ensures that:

Starting from IOM 4, IOM releases will follow the semantic versioning approach. The following release types are available:

Frequency | API Changes | Transition Period | |
|---|---|---|---|
Major Release | 1-2 times / year | Significant breaking changes | 12 weeks |
Minor Release | 4-8 times / year | Compatible changes (new functionality) | 4 weeks |
Patch Release | on demand | Compatible changes (bugfixes) | - |

There is **no fixed time frame** for these release types.

Note

Patches, formerly known as *hotfix*, are only provided for supported versions on demand. There is no obligation to upgrade to patch versions, the customer is accountable for any risk. An example for significant breaking changes: removal of previously marked deprecations.

The transition period describes a timespan after the introduction of a new release during which patches for the previous release are still provided. If the new release is a major version, the transition period lasts 12 weeks. If it is a minor release, it lasts for 4 weeks. After the transition period, no further patches will be provided for the respective previous minor or major version. Latest at this point, Intershop recommends updating to a new version.

The following graphics show two examples, both for the transition period for a major release as well as for a minor release:

Info

The dates and time periods used in the examples are for illustrative purposes only. There are no fixed times for releases.

After the introduction of the 5.0 major release, there is a 12-week transition period during which 4.x patches are still provided:

After each minor release, there is a 4-week transition period during which patches for the previous minor version are still provided:

Intershop considers all major/minor IOM versions as supported, as long as no new major or minor version has been announced. There is a transition period of 4 weeks for minor and 12 weeks for major versions, see [Release Types](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Concept-ContinuousReleases(validto7.10)-releasetypes).

Customers or partners running unsupported versions will be supported with issue analyzing. However, this applies only to the current current and x-1 major release.

Patches are available only for supported versions.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.