---
id: 'e3312a5b854cda070cb243334cb96181'
title: 'Video Tutorial - Intershop Studio (IStudio) Part 2'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/28478E'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:38:39.801130+00:00'
---
Info

This document replaces the outdated article with the ID 2557G5 and the same title.

The Intershop Studio, based on Eclipse, is the main development tool for the Intershop 7 platform. It offers an IDE for all development relevant tasks and assets like cartridges, pipelines, templates, pagelets, queries, and many more.

Intershop Studio allows you to customize code for your application to meet business requirements and processes.

The tutorial series contains several topics like:

Part 2 of 3 gives you a short overview of working with Intershop Studio. We will create a cartridge that adds functionality to display some information about the sites and their assigned applications into the *Operations* organization. The cartridge already includes prepared content like pipelets and templates, which are part of the technical training courses.

If you want to recreate this tutorial, you can find the necessary files here:

The training files are valid for Intershop 7.0 - 7.4.

Info

*
*

Select *Create Start Node* and choose *application/ApplicationFrame -sld_system_app* as *Rendering Template*.

Click *Finish*.

Click the *Show Palette* arrow to display the pipeline editor.

Select* Pipelet* and click the arrow between *Start* and the interaction node to insert it.

Select the inserted pipelet.

Click *...* to insert the *CreateSiteIterator[]:Sites -bc_foundation* pipelet.

Connect the error node to the arrow between the inserted pipelet and the interaction node, since the error node is not part of this tutorial.

Press *Ctrl + T* to refurbish the arrow.

Select *Pipelet* and click the arrow between the already inserted pipelet and the interaction node to insert a second pipelet.

Select the inserted pipelet.

Click *...* to insert the *PrepareApplicationView* pipelet.

Switch to the *Configuration* tab.

Under *Working template*, click* ...* and select the template *application/IncludeApps -tutorial(Tutorial ) - Templates*.

Select the pipeline, go to the *Permissions* tab, and click *New* to set permissions for the administrator.

Select *Organization* as *Element*.

Enter *SLD_MANAGE_ENTERPRISES* as *Permission*.

Click *OK* and save the pipeline.

Right-click the cartridge in *Package Explorer* and select *Build cartridge (Ant Build)*.

Select *Sort targets* and *Hide internal targets not selected for execution* for a better overview.

Select the *clean* target, click *Order...,* and change the priority of the *clean* target so that it will be executed before the *build [ Default ]* target.

Click *OK*.

Building means adding new content to the existing cartridge. Cleaning the cartridge before the build process reduces the chance of old code fragments causing complications later.

Click *Apply,* and then *Run*.

The* intershop.properties* file defines where the created cartridges are located. Ensure that your build process adds your cartridge to this exact location.

Register the cartridge in your *cartridge.properties* file.

Please restart your application server after this registration.

Save and rebuild the cartridge by clicking on *Run tutorial build.xml* and *1 tutorial build.xml*.

The rebuild is necessary to make the changed content available. In special situations, a restart of the application server might also be necessary.

To change the delivered content, open the *IncludeApps.isml* template under *tutorial | staticfiles | cartridge | template | default | application* and edit the content with intershop specific and valid code.

If you need further assistance, please contact the Support team or the Technical Training department.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.