---
id: 'e35bed7867d7f0528ca6443eeebcc517'
title: 'Searching for Customers and Users'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32536B'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:34.519933+00:00'
---
# Searching for Customers and Users

The customer and user search is available via the customer list view.

## Simple Customer and User Search

The Simple Search mask allows you to search for a customer or a user of a business customer by its name or ID. To use the Simple Search mask:

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Customers | Customers.
This displays all customers and users in a single list view.
- Specify the name or ID of the customer or user to be retrieved.
-
Click Find.
The results are displayed in the list view.

Tip:

The Simple Search mask is displayed by default. If you previously used the Advanced Search mask, click Switch to Simple Search.

## Advanced Customer and User Search

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Customers | Customers.
This displays all customers and users in a single list view.
- Click Switch to Advanced Search.
-
Specify your search criteria in the corresponding fields.
The following criteria are available:
Customer:

-
Customer ID

-
Company Name

-
Customer Type

-
Creation Date from

- Creation Date to
- Status
- Approval Status (only displayed if customer approval is enabled, see
[Managing Customer Approval Preferences](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/operation_maintenance/topic_managing_registration_and_reminder_preferences.html#task_pref_gen_apprRemind_cust)) - External Customer ID

User:

-
User ID

-
Login

-
First Name

- Last Name
- Creation Date from
- Creation Date to
- Status
- External User ID

-
-
Click Find.
The results are displayed in the list view.