---
id: 'e3c4e1b9bef77335f98a4efff1c24635'
title: 'Deleting Products'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/323T27'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:22.837470+00:00'
---
# Deleting Products

Deleting products can proceed in different ways, depending on whether or not the recycle bin has been activated. The recycle bin is activated and configured by the master catalog administrator. For details, see [Managing Recycle Bin and Product Deletion](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/task_managing_recycle_bin_and_product_deletion.html).

## Moving Products to the Recycle Bin

This requires the recycle bin to be activated. To keep a deleted product in the recycle bin:

-
Locate the products you want to delete.
For details, see
[Locating Products](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/task_locating_products.html). - In the products list, select the products you want to delete.
-
Click Delete, then OK to confirm the operation.
The selected products are moved to the recycle bin.

## Deleting Products Permanently

-
Select the intended management context from the context selection box, then select Catalogs | Recycle Bin.
This displays a list of all products that are currently in the recycle bin. Use the search to locate specific products.
- Select the products you want to delete permanently.
-
Click Delete, then OK to confirm the operation.
The selected products are removed from the system.

In case the recycle bin is inactive, products are deleted permanently from the product list view. Proceed as follows:

- Locate the products you want to delete.
For details, see

[Locating Products](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/task_locating_products.html). - In the products list, select the products you want to delete.
- Click Delete, then OK to confirm the operation.
The selected product is removed from the system. Note that products derived from the current product via syndication are not affected.