---
id: 'e3d3015fbe7b38feae950a6de4e3a526'
title: 'Importing Promotions'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3260S1'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:20.335381+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/3260S1

# Importing Promotions

To import promotions from an XML file:
-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Marketing | Import & Export.
This displays the Promotion Import & Export manager.

-
Upload the file to be imported.
-
In the Promotion (XML) section, click Import.
A list of files that can be imported is displayed.

-
Select file to import, then click Next.
The import file is now validated with respect to the predefined XML schema for promotions. When successful, the file can be imported. In case of errors, error messages are generated. You can also download the log file.

-
Select the import mode.
The available import modes include OMIT, IGNORE, UPDATE, REPLACE, DELETE and INITIAL. For import mode details, see

[Standard Import Modes](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/concept_catalog_import_and_export.html#con_cat_impex_modes).

-
Click Import.
The import process is started immediately. When successful, the number of imported promotions is displayed. In case of errors, error messages are generated. You can also download the log file.


## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.