---
id: 'e4d7e0a37c403ffd27a33216fc7cd5e1'
title: 'Managing Shared Content Modifications'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32488Y'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:44.491453+00:00'
---
# Managing Shared Content Modifications

Organizations or channels that share content assets with channels or applications, respectively, can allow changes to shared content assigned to placeholders. In this case, channels or applications that reuse this content can decide to overwrite this content.

## Allowing Shared Content Modifications

-
Navigate to the intended placeholder of the shared page variant or component.
Open the Page Variant Manager/Component Manager, click the name or ID of the page variant/component you want to edit to open the detail view, then scroll to the Placeholders section.
-
In the placeholder section, click the icon next to the intended placeholder.
This opens the settings dialog box.
-
Select the Allow changes checkbox, and click Apply.
Channels or applications that reuse the content assigned to this placeholder can now decide to overwrite this content.

## Overwriting Shared Content

-
Navigate to the intended placeholder of the reused page variant or component.
Open the Page Variant Manager/Component Manager, click the name or ID of the page variant/component you want to edit to open the detail view, then scroll to the Placeholders section.
-
Click Overwrite.
This enables local content modifications in this placeholder, including rearranging and removing assigned components and adding own components.

## Undoing Shared Content Modifications

-
Navigate to the intended placeholder of the reused page variant or component.
Open the Page Variant Manager/Component Manager, click the name or ID of the page variant/component you want to edit to open the detail view, then scroll to the Placeholders section.
-
Click Revert, and confirm the operation.
This discards the local content modifications in this placeholder and restores the originally shared assignments.