---
id: 'e52e57692d1cfc9fa30d925c1aefba96'
title: 'Reference - IOM REST API'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2940Y3'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:06.143230+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/2940Y3

This API specification is available for download as an Open API 3.0 YAML file:

# Authentication

## Basic Authentication

Please configure your clients to use this authentication method to submit user name and password.

## Authorization

The permission 'ATP REST service' is required.

# API Specification

openapi: 3.0.1 info: title: IOM Inventory Service REST API description: Availability of products. contact: name: Intershop Communications AG url: http://intershop.com version: "2.0" servers: - url: '{protocol}://{domain}:{port}/servlets/services' variables: protocol: default: http enum: - http - https domain: default: localhost port: default: "8080" security: - basicAuth: [] paths: /atp/{shopId}/{id}: get: tags: - Inventory description: Get the currently available quantity of a product. operationId: getAvailableQuantity parameters: - name: shopId in: path description: The id of the shop. required: true schema: type: integer format: int64 example: 1000 - name: id in: path description: One or more product ids which are separated by comma. required: true style: simple schema: type: array items: type: string example: 12345,67890,13579,24680 - name: resvId in: query description: The id of a reservation if desired. schema: type: integer format: int64 example: 15280 responses: "200": description: OK content: application/json: schema: $ref: '#/components/schemas/HttpResponseListAtp' "400": description: Bad Request "401": description: Authentication information is missing or invalid "403": description: Forbidden "415": description: Unsupported Media Type "500": description: An unexpected error occured components: schemas: Atp: type: object properties: id: maxLength: 30 minLength: 0 type: string description: Id of the product. example: "12345677890" location: maxLength: 50 minLength: 0 type: string description: Name of the supplier as used by the shop. example: Supplier X stock: type: integer description: The current stock level. format: int32 example: 1500 reserved: type: integer description: The reserved stock - quantity that was reserved. format: int32 example: 100 blocked: type: integer description: The blocked stock - quantity that was already sold. format: int32 example: 473 atp: type: integer description: The available quantity (stock-level - blocked stock - reserved stock). format: int32 example: 927 modificationDate: type: string description: Last update of the availablity. format: date-time state: type: string description: Status of the general availability [sold out, temporarily not available, available] example: available description: The ATP-object that contains information about the availablity of a product. CodedException: type: object properties: message: type: string code: type: string description: Exceptions. FieldError: type: object properties: message: type: string sourceField: type: string description: Errors at parameters. HttpResponseListAtp: type: object properties: data: type: array description: The list of Atp-objects. items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/Atp' statusCode: type: integer description: The status code of the response. format: int32 errors: type: array description: Errors at parameters. items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/FieldError' exceptions: type: array description: Exceptions. items: $ref: '#/components/schemas/CodedException' securitySchemes: basicAuth: type: http description: Basic Authentication scheme: basic

[Open ReDoc-rendered Open API documentation in separate window.](https://knowledge.intershop.com/rdd/Redoc-2940Y3.html)

## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.