---
id: 'e587b6a98d1bd63f81c2c3c9b49c47f2'
title: 'Reference'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/30646C'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:38:50.455264+00:00'
---
**Receive and store response notification in status INITIAL or CONTINUOUS**. A 3rd party system passes a response notification in the status INITIAL or CONTINOUS via standard API.

**Assign response notification to order** by adding the shop order number to the response.

OK: corresponding shop order number was found and assigned.

FAILED: no corresponding shop order number was found. Initiate the escalation workflow to handle the error.


**Unprocessed response notifications available?**

YES: the current response is set to the wait status until older responses are processed.

NO: there are no older response(s), the process continues.


**Prepare response and add missing data** using the related order.

If the IOM product ID is missing, add the IOM product ID to the response.

If the order position reference number is missing, add the order position reference number to the response.

Only response positions with a valid order position reference will be processed. Additional response positions without a valid reference will not be processed.

If the quantity is missing, add the quantity from the order position to the response position. This is the case when the 3rd party system is unable to send the quantity to the response.

If the shop is sending the same product in more than one order line and the 3rd party system is unable to process orders with the same product in more than one order line, the IOM will merge these order positions in one order position in the supplier order. If the 3rd party system provides a response notification to these merged order positions, the IOM must split the merged positions again to match the original order.


**Processing sequence for response type available?** Ensure that INITIAL responses are processed before a CONTINOUS response and older CONTINOUS responses are processed first.

FALSE: there are other response notifications that must be processed before the current one. The response is set to the wait status until all previous response notifications are processed.

TRUE: there are no older responses. The current one can be processed.


**Validate response **according to the defined business rules.

NO ERRORS: the response was validated successfully.

ERRORS: the validation detected errors (e.g. required fields are missing). Initiate the escalation workflow to handle the errors. The response must be handled manually to resolve the validation errors and will be ignored until the status is changed to CHECKED.

PRICE OR SHIPPING DEVIATION: deviations in prices or shipping information are found.


**Set the response to CHECKED** and continue with [Response Notification Process](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/47830499649/Reference+-+IOM+Order+Response+Business+Process#Response-Notification-Process).

**Error message should be sent to the fulfillment location?**

YES: a notification will be sent.

NO: no notification will be sent.

**Set response to NOT_CHECKED**. This response must be handled manually and will be ignored until the status is changed to CHECKED.

**Create and process e-mail notification — Set response to IN_EXTERNAL_PROCESSING**. This response must be handled manually and will be ignored until the status is changed to CHECKED. Response transmission REQUEST_NEW_RESPONSE will be created and sent to the fulfillment location.

**Handle errors ? (and set status)**. Errors are handled manually and the status must be set to DO_CHECK and will be picked up for validation again. Otherwise the status must be set to FAILED and end.

**Manual response approval — Set response to NOT_CHECKED_DO_APPROVE**.** **According to the response validation rules, the response must be approved manually by the order capture channel. Response transmission CONFIRM_RESPONSE will be created and an e-mail will be sent to the order capture channel to approve the response notification.

**Approve response**.** **The response will be approved, the order will be declined.

Approved, the status must be set to CHECKED. The process continues with [Response Notification Process](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/47830499649/Reference+-+IOM+Order+Response+Business+Process#Response-Notification-Process).

Declined, the status must be set to FAILED.


**Create order recall transmission**. To cancel an order with declined response notifications, the IOM sends a recall e-mail to the fulfillment location. Therefore, a transmission of type SEND_ORDER_RECALL will be created and sent.