---
id: 'e6066bae2ac9e7c07e1c99d4d3147ca3'
title: 'Payment Methods: Concepts'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/M32866'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:10.563511+00:00'
---
# Payment Methods: Concepts

Intershop Commerce Management provides out-of-the-box support for the following payment methods:

- Cash on delivery
- Direct debit transfer
- Invoice
- Cash in advance
- Gift card

In addition, Intershop Commerce Management features "helper" payment methods, which can serve as a "blueprint" for implementing new payment methods.

The demo payment methods shipped with Intershop Commerce Management include:

-
ISH Credit Card

A demo method intended to be used as a template for implementing new payment methods. It simulates a payment service with credit card-specific methods. With respect to order management, it illustrates the generally available payment processing transactions, see

[Generic Payment Processing](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/orders_fulfillment/concept_generic_payment_processing.html). -
ISH Online Pay

A demo method intended to be used as a template for implementing new payment methods. It simulates a payment service that aggregates the payment information of the customer to trigger a bank transfer from the customer's bank account to the shop's bank account.

-
ISH Fast Pay

A demo method intended to be used as a template for implementing new payment methods. It simulates an "express"-type payment service that redirects the customer to an external payment service for authentication and checkout completion.


Additional payment methods can be provided through dedicated payment provider cartridges. The central system administrator makes the new payment methods available to your sales organization, which, in turn, has to propagate them to the sales channel and the corresponding applications.

Available concepts for this topic can be found here: