---
id: 'e6112e54b10e495624f4f994c797152a'
title: 'Activating Selected Shared Products'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3221Z0'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:59.673258+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/3221Z0

# Activating Selected Shared Products

To activate a set of selected products shared from a master repository for the channel repository:
-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Catalogs | Inbound Product Sharing from the navigation bar.
This displays the Inbound Product Sharing manager.

-
Select Activate selected shared products and click Apply.
This displays the list of all available shared master products that are currently inactive, and below the list of currently active products.

-
From the list of inactive products, select the products you intend to activate for the channel repository.
You can either browse through the list or perform a search to narrow the choice.

-
To activate all listed products, click the Activate All button. To activate products individually, select the corresponding checkboxes for the products and click the Activate Selected button.

## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.