---
id: 'e64b4a1d09d76fb335f216f4548e1b3d'
title: 'Searching Promotion Codes'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3261F4'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:12.400918+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/3261F4

# Searching Promotion Codes

To search for promotion codes, perform the following steps:
-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Marketing | Promotion Codes.
This opens the promotion code section with the default tab Search.

-
Enter the promotion code under consideration of case sensitivity and spaces into the input field Promotion Code.
To perform a customer-specific search, use the input field "E-Mail", "Login" or "Customer ID" and enter one of these attributes of a given customer. Alternatively, click on the

Select button (

) to open the customer search page.

-
Click Find or press Enter to start the search.
If available, the promotion code is displayed with additional information on redemption status and validity status.

-
Click the promotion code name to enter the promotion code search detail view.
Tip: If the customer input field is either empty or contains a valid e-mail, login or customer ID, the promotion code search is executed immediately. If the entered e-mail, login or customer ID is incomplete or invalid, the customer search based on the given search terms is executed. As soon as a customer is selected, the promotion code search can be triggered again.

For an explanation of the promotion code search detail view, refer to

[Promotion Code Search](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/online_marketing/concept_promotion_code_search.html).


## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.