---
id: 'e6f250a03dbdae00594574b427778955'
title: 'Concept - Intershop PWA'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/V30820'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:34.249187+00:00'
---
In order to be a [Progressive Web Application](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps), the Intershop PWA implements some advanced concepts matching those criteria.

The Web App Manifest enables the PWA to be installable on home screens of mobile devices.

The application is easily accessible via a generated link, and branding is applied to icons and browser coloring so it poses as a native application.

The manifest in the PWA is theme-specific and can be customized in the file `src/assets/themes/<theme>/manifest.webmanifest`

.

[Service workers](https://angular.io/guide/service-worker-intro) are automatically installed into client device browsers after the first visit to the shop and take over all the handling of the application on the client side.

Possible advanced features supplied are offline capabilities and push notifications.

After installation, the service worker effectively disables server-side rendering for clients and invokes all rendering on the client itself.

For the Intershop PWA, offline browsing is not a suitable use case for most customers, and push notifications are not yet supplied by Intershop Commerce Management.

For now, service worker integration is an **experimental** feature that can be activated for appropriate projects.

To activate the service worker, run:

`node schematics/customization/service-worker true`

To run the project as a Progressive Web App with an enabled [Service Worker](https://angular.io/guide/service-worker-getting-started), use `npm run start`

to build and serve the application.

Next, open * http://localhost:4200* in your browser and test it or run a PWA audit.

You can also activate the service worker specifically for Docker builds by supplying the build argument `serviceWorker=true`

.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.