---
id: 'e7bc07c70863b178e1f5769419f3f81b'
title: 'Video Tutorial - Intershop Commerce Insight (ICI) Part 1'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2S8469'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:40:20.342129+00:00'
---
This part represents a general overview of our Intershop Commerce Insight (ICI).

With Intershop Commerce Insight, a systematic and continuous analysis of key system metrics of your Intershop system is possible in order to respond effectively to demands while steadily developing the customer experience. The Intershop Commerce Insight provides the opportunity to analyze system behavior in detail. There is no need to use a third party software for technical analyses, because the Intershop Commerce Insight is deeply integrated within the Intershop 7 environment. Multiple channels can be analyzed by one reporting system.

The Intershop Commerce Insight provides continuous monitoring of system performance that enables you to identify bottlenecks, both when testing content and during live operation. It is possible to break down response times, for example, and analyze them in detail to pinpoint specific problems with a server or a function call. You can also maximize system stability by detecting issues as soon as they emerge, even during seasonal peaks. With analysis on both the client and server side, the Intershop Commerce Insight enables you to identify exactly when action is required and to implement solutions quickly and efficiently.

Intershop Commerce Insight is a Software as a Service (SaaS) solution, which means you always have the latest version of all features available.

*
*

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.