---
id: 'e8958a391fa2d5932df1ac9f95a69efe'
title: 'Catalog Types'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32174Z'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:01.967358+00:00'
---
# Catalog Types

Catalogs are distinguished along the following dimensions:

-
Standard and Classification Catalogs

Standard catalogs use a freely-defined category structure to group products. Classification catalogs, on the other hand, predefine the set of catalog categories to which products can be assigned. Apart from defining the set of available categories, they can also define classification attributes. Classification attributes are automatically associated with products assigned to a certain catalog category. Intershop Commerce Management provides out-of-the-box support for classification catalogs based on the ecl@ss and UN/SPSC standards. These catalogs are preloaded by the central administrator. They can be set online or offline by catalog managers of sales organizations. However, they cannot be deleted. In addition, catalog managers can define custom classification catalogs.

-
Shared and Local Catalogs

Catalogs can be shared or local. Shared catalogs are master catalogs which are shared to one or more channels. These catalogs can then be accessed by the business partners using that channel. Catalog sharing makes it possible to use predefined catalog structures across different channels.

-
System Classification Catalogs

System classification catalogs are a means for creating and grouping products that have specific properties and therefore require a different handling. This may be the case with products like warranties, gift wraps, or downloads, which, for example, may be excluded from search indexes, may not require an inventory, etc.

Table 1. Predefined system classification attributes Attribute Description ExcludeFromSearchIndex Prevents all products of this category from being included in the search index. ExcludeFromShipping Prevents all products of this category from being included in the shipping calculation. HasNoInventory Prevents all products of this category from being subject to inventory calculation, that is, the products are always available (e.g., downloads). IsNotOrderable Prevents all products of this category from being ordered individually, that is, the products can be ordered only in combination with other products (e.g., warranties). System classification catalogs are created with the database initialization only and cannot be edited via Intershop Commerce Management. Business managers can just assign products to the prepared system classification categories. The products then "inherit" all properties defined for the particular categories, becoming usable warranties, gift wraps, or downloads, for example.