---
id: 'e9cc75b7201895f71dfbb8a442c883ab'
title: 'Reference'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/M27696'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:39:27.531617+00:00'
---
Info

Prior to Intershop version 7.7 the information provided in this document were part of the * Administration and Configuration Guide* that can be found in the Knowledge Base.

The System Management monitoring module is the main system monitoring tool. Using this module, system administrators can monitor the properties, process information, current threads and requests of all server components in the Intershop Commerce Management system. This information can be used for advanced debugging, profiling and troubleshooting purposes in an Intershop Commerce Management installation.

For details about accessing and using the monitoring module, refer to the System Management online help.

For additional monitoring options, refer to [Guide - JMX and MBean Support](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1816070548/Guide+-+JMX+and+MBean+Support).

The following tables outline the available monitoring options, sub-section by sub-section.

Prometheus metrics are introduced step by step starting with ICM 7.10

| Metric | Type | Filter | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
servlet_metrics_bucket | histogram |
| Request handler execution times |
servlet_metrics_count |
| ||
servlet_metrics_sum |
|

| Metric | Type | Filter | |
|---|---|---|---|
intershop_jdbc_datasource_created | counter | ||
intershop_jdbc_datasource_current | gauge | ||
intershop_jdbc_datasource_closed | counter | ||
intershop_jdbc_connections_created | counter | ||
intershop_jdbc_connections_closed | counter | ||
intershop_jdbc_pool | gauge |
| Number of connection in database connection pool for given states:
|

| Metric | Type | Filter | |
|---|---|---|---|
intershop_cacheclear_ignoredkeys_total | counter |
| |
intershop_cacheclear_processing_count | gauge |
| |
intershop_cacheclear_processing_sum | gauge |
| |
intershop_objectcache_hit_total | counter |
| |
intershop_objectcache_miss_total | counter |
| |
intershop_objectcache_requests_total | counter |
| |
intershop_objectcache_hit_ratio | gauge |
| |
intershop_objectcache_size | gauge |
|

| Metric | Type | Filter | |
|---|---|---|---|
intershop_messaging_messages_sent_total | counter |
| |
intershop_messaging_messages_received_total | counter |
| |
intershop_messaging_messages_processing_count | counter |
| |
intershop_messaging_messages_processing_sum | counter |
| |
intershop_messaging_protocol_messages_received_total | counter |
| |
intershop_messaging_protocol_bytes_sent_total | counter |
| |
intershop_messaging_protocol_bytes_received_total | counter |
| |
intershop_messaging_protocol_messages_rejected_total | counter |
| |
intershop_messaging_protocol_threads_spawned_total | counter |
|

JVM metrics contain information about. The following table contains provided standard metrics of Prometheus library.

| Metric | Filter |
|---|---|
jvm_info | |
| jvm_gc_collection_seconds_count |
|
jvm_gc_collection_seconds_sum |
|
jvm_memory_bytes_used |
|
jvm_memory_bytes_committed |
|
jvm_memory_bytes_max |
|
jvm_memory_bytes_init |
|
jvm_memory_pool_bytes_used |
|
jvm_memory_pool_bytes_committed |
|
jvm_memory_pool_bytes_max |
|
jvm_memory_pool_bytes_init |
|
jvm_memory_pool_allocated_bytes_total |
|
jvm_threads_current | |
jvm_threads_daemon | |
jvm_threads_peak | |
jvm_threads_started_total | |
jvm_threads_deadlocked | |
jvm_threads_deadlocked_monitor | |
jvm_threads_state |
|

Monitoring Item | Description |
|---|---|
Process Information | Displays general information about the application server (process ID, startup date, cluster ID, server groups), and about its Web front service (port, handler thread number, etc.) |
Resource Usage | Displays information about the current server process (CPU usage, total process size, in-memory size, used system threads). |
Properties | Displays the properties that are currently known by the application. This list contains aggregated properties from a number of Note Sensitive properties may be hidden (see |
Sessions and Requests | Displays information about the session management options and session and request statistics for the server. |
Configuration Values | Enables the retrieval of configuration data from an application server. Configuration values can be retrieved from the scope, domain, application and key (displaying all of the values for each instance of a particular key). |

Monitoring Item | Description |
|---|---|
Resource Usage | Displays information about the Java Virtual Machine (total heap size, used heap size, used/total heap ratio) |
Threads | Displays all threads that currently exist in the Java Virtual Machine |
System Properties | Displays all the system properties of the application server's JVM |

Monitoring Item | Description |
|---|---|
ORM Cache | Displays general information about the ORM cache such as number of cached instances, cache synchronization information, or persistent objects in the cache |
Persistent Object Information | Displays information about the selected persistent object on the monitored server (number of instances in cache, default reference type) |

Monitoring Item | Description |
|---|---|
Drivers | Displays information about the registered JDBC drivers |
Data Sources | Displays general data source information and Oracle connection cache information |

Monitoring Item | Description |
|---|---|
Loaded Cartridges | Lists all cartridges loaded on the server and shows basic cartridge information (name, display name, version, build, cartridge directory, JAR files) |
Loaded Pipelets | Lists all pipelets loaded on the server |
Duplicated Pipelets | Generates a list of duplicate pipelets on the server |

Monitoring Item | Description |
|---|---|
Configuration | Configures and activates/deactivates the Performance Monitor types (request, pipeline, class, managed service, object path, pagelet, pipelet, query, SQL and template) and displays the current monitoring state (active/inactive) You can also set values to be written to a log. |
Compare Performance Monitoring Results | Select a sensor and base report data to make a performance comparison to another report (across all sites). A sensor is a Request, Pipeline, Class, Managed Service, Object Path, Pagelet, Pipelet, Query, SQL or Template. |
Performance by Domain and Site | Select a specific site and display request performance. Values are returned for hits, total time, effective time, average time minimum time and maximum time. |
Performance by Type | Select a specific type of performance measurement and display the values across all sites. |

Monitoring Item | Description |
|---|---|
Configuration | Displays the current background monitoring state and allows for switching it on or off and adjusting the timeout between two measurement cycles |
Memory Charts | Shows the memory usage of the running server (process memory, JVM memory, ORM cache memory) in graphs |
Session Charts | Displays graphical information about the sessions of the running server (total sessions, active sessions, active requests) |
Performance Charts | Displays detailed information about the performance of the running server (average response time, CPU usage, load factor, thread count) |

Note

The Configuration dialog allows for specifying a new monitor pipeline. Intershop strongly recommends to keep the default settings. Unless you have implemented a custom monitor pipeline or added a custom start node to the existing one.

Before you can monitor the database status, you have to execute the script *DBMonitorGrants.sql*, located in *<IS.INSTANCE.LOCAL>/bin*.

Monitoring Item | Description |
|---|---|
Database Status | Displays detailed information about database configuration and performance. Select one of the reports from the list box to display the corresponding information. |

Monitoring Item | Description |
|---|---|
Named Resources | Displays information about named resources Named resources are virtual entities. Every named resource is identified by a unique name. Named resources can have a hierarchical structure. |
Instance Resources | Displays information about instance resources Instance resources are created dynamically. Every instance resource represents an instance of a PersistentObject. |
Processes | Displays information about Intershop Commerce Management processes, such as data replication processes, import processes and scheduled jobs |
Locking Conflicts | Displays information about resource acquisition problems Resource acquisitions problems occur if a process tries to acquire a resource that is already locked by another process. |

This section summarizes the service providers that are integrated into your system. The overview page lists the services and their statuses in the site and application server contexts, grouped by service type.

Clicking a service name opens a detail view, which is divided into two tabs. The *Monitoring* tab shows more, fine-grained operation details, whereas the *Maintenance* tab provides options to enable/disable, ping or test the current service.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.