---
id: 'eba3a9b493a1346ea68a3097f5e7a1c1'
title: 'Page Variant Manager'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/P32389'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:16.617644+00:00'
---
# Page Variant Manager

The Page Variant Manager displays all available page variants in a list view. Using the Page Variant Manager, content managers can search for the name or content of page variants of a specific group or type. If necessary, the search can be narrowed to find page variants with specific attributes, parameters, slots, publishing periods or object assignments using the advanced search.

From the page variant list, content managers can create new page variants or delete page variants using the New and Delete buttons. They can lock page variants for editing () or copy page variants ().

In addition, content managers can trigger a number of mass-data operations using the Edit All or Edit Selected buttons. The available actions include setting the publishing period, creating category or product assignments, assigning a label or deleting the page variants.

The page variant detail view is divided into four tabs:

-
Content: displays the configurable parameters and the content components assigned to the page variant (as provided by the type).

-
Assignments: lists the assignment of the page variant to pages.

-
Properties: displays general page variant settings like locale, name, ID, template, publishing status and period.

-
Labels: lists all labels assigned to the page variant.


Clicking the name of a page variant in the list view opens the Content tab of the detail view. Clicking the publishing date opens the Properties tab of the detail view.