---
id: 'ec3e52541f9fe5f568289e2513385a0e'
title: 'Public Release Note'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/31N174'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:29:29.462091+00:00'
---
The SolrCloud Search Service Adapter connects the Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) with a Solr server that runs in cloud mode. The search index configuration and maintenance in the ICM back office uses the Schema- and ConfigSet-REST-APIs provided by Solr. Thus, the Solr server is separate and independent of the ICM application server cluster.

Intershop Commerce Management | SolrCloud Search Service Adapter | Solr Server |
|---|---|---|
11.0+ | 4.7.1 | 8.11 |

Please see [Reference - ICM 11 Release Versions](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48544023888/Reference+-+ICM+11+Release+Versions) for versions that are released and tested together.

The following table lists the cartridges contained in the SolrCloud Adapter:

Cartridge | Description | Required |
|---|---|---|
ac_solr_cloud | The main implementation cartridge of the adapter defining and registering the search service. | |
ac_solr_cloud_bo | Additional functionality for the Commerce Management application. It provides additional configuration options for the index management, especially for suggest and spell-check. |

Follow the basic setup of ICM 11 customization described in [Concept - Customization ICM 11 - Deployment](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48443982957/Concept+-+Customization+-+Deployment+-+ICM+11) to add the customization cartridges to ICM and to the cartridge list.

Add the `ft_solr_cloud`

* *feature to the cartridge list:

environment: CARTRIDGE_LIST: "ft_demo_search ft_headless ft_solr_cloud"

Add the Solr adapter to the customizations section of the helm chart:

... customizations: solrcloud: repository: intershophub/icm-as-customization-f_solrcloud:4.7.0 ....

The following environment variables show the setup of the most common options:

environment: SOLR_CLOUDSOLRSERVERURLS: "https://slr-test-slr-test-solrcloud.test.intershop.com/solr" SOLR_CLUSTERINDEXPREFIX: "cstmr-int-ed" SOLR_COLLECTIONREPLICATIONFACTOR: 2 SOLR_CLOUDBACKUPLOCATION: "/var/solr/data/backup-restore/local-collection-backups-1" SOLR_BASICAUTH: "solr:SolrIsAwesome!"

The environment variables in detail (from top to bottom):

With SolrCloud Adapter 4 it is required to configure a common Solr service URL with `SOLR_CLOUDSOLRSERVERURLS`

instead of a connection to a list of zookeeper hosts. (required)

The cluster index prefix is required to distinguish the indexes from multiple ICM systems, e.g., if data replication is used. (optional on development environment)

The recommendation for the replication factor is *2* to have redundancy of indexes on two nodes. This way, there is always an index online even if the Solr cluster is re-started with a rolling restart. (Set to *1* if there is only a single Solr, e.g., in development environments.)

A backup location is needed if data replication for search indexes is used.

In general, basic authentication is used for the connection from ICM to the Solr server. To set the user/password for the basic authentication, add it to the environment.

The basic authentication user and password string can also be used from a generic secret instead of adding it as plain text in the environment:

secrets: - env: SOLR_BASICAUTH name: icm-secrets key: solr_basicauth

The adapter comes with an initial Solr configset configuration that is prepared into *sites/root/1/solrcloud*. If the customization is added after database initialization, it is important to execute the initialization for the `ac_solr_cloud`

to make this configuration available.

Enable the managed services in Operations, see [Intershop Organization Management Help | Managing Services](https://docs.intershop.com/icm/latest/olh/oma/en/topics/managing_organizations/task_managing_services.html).

Create search services in the organization and channels, see [Intershop Commerce Management Help | Managing Search Index Services](https://docs.intershop.com/icm/latest/olh/icm/en/operation_maintenance/topic_managing_search_index_services.html#task_pref_servSearch).

Create and Manage Search Indexes, see [InterShop Commerce Management Help | Managing Search Indexes](https://docs.intershop.com/icm/latest/olh/icm/en/operation_maintenance/topic_managing_search_indexes.html).

The Solrcloud Search Service Adapter 4 connects the Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) Platform with [Apache Solr](https://solr.apache.org/) to provide integrated search and navigation capabilities based on ICM's managed search service integration framework. The adapter provides the full backend feature-set as known from [ICM 7.10 Search and Navigation](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1859650310/Feature+List+-+Intershop+Commerce+Management+B2X+7.10+EN#FeatureList-IntershopCommerceManagementB2X7.10(EN)-SearchandNavigation). However, some of the features (display of spell-checking results, search redirects, object suggest search) are not integrated out of the box into the ICM 11 standard storefront (PWA) anymore.

ID | Title |
|---|---|
No update of ish-config.xml after search index config changes |

ID | Title |
|---|---|
Support multiple value attributes in object suggest search indexing |

ID | Title |
|---|---|
SolrAdapter ConcurrentModificationException in "BackupAndRestoreSolrCloudIndexesDecorator" during staging | |
Object suggest index build - offline content index causes NullPointerException | |
SKU is not usable as separate entry in object suggest type search |

ID | Title |
|---|---|
Add property to change Solr client to use HTTP/1.1 or HTTP/2 |

ID | Title |
|---|---|
Improve DELETE request handling |

Features

ID | Title |
|---|---|
Parallelize restore & backup of search indexes during replication | |
Rebuild inconsistent search indexes during replication |

ID | Title |
|---|---|
Automatic search index update after product deletion via back office is not reflected in search index list | |
Restore collection fails with server exception | |
Concurrent upload of default config set fails with "configuration already exists in zookeeper" | |
Replication fails on BackupAndRestoreSolrCloudIndexesDecorator.onPostReplicationHook due to Solr Cloud OverseerCollectionMessageHandler.waitForCoreNodeName method exception |

Release for referencing updated icm-as/11.3.x

ID | Title |
|---|---|
Wrong collection alias set when entry in aliases is missing before replication but a collection exists | |
Collection named like the alias is not deleted | |
Solr Cloud adapter code throws "Closing JDBC connection via finalize method" exception | |
ac_solr_cloud cannot reference intershop.EnterpriseBackoffice.Cartridges |

Initial version that was re-synced from the Solr Adapter Version 3.4.0

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.