---
id: 'ecd0fcc767026ada39b364416dc1d2f3'
title: 'Importing Classification Catalogs'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/33P641'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:30:58.286835+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Organization Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/33P641

# Importing Classification Catalogs

To import catalogs in XML format:
-
Upload the file to be imported.
-
In the navigation bar, select Import & Export.
The overview page is displayed.

-
In the Classification Categories (XML) row, click Import.
A list of files that can be imported is displayed.

-
Select the file to import, then click Next.
The import file is now validated. When successful, the number of categories detected by the parser is displayed. In case of errors, error messages are generated. You can also download the log file.

-
Select the import mode and, if required, the target catalog.
For details, see

[Import Modes](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/oma_en/topics/managing_data_import_and_export/ref_import_modes.html).

Note: You are prompted to select a target catalog if the import file does not specify a root category. When specified, the root category is assumed as the target catalog.

-
Click Import.
The import process is started immediately. The Import Monitor page is displayed.


## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.