---
id: 'ecd7b544ae0c186e29f1bbd3839bb37c'
title: 'ISML Tag'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/M24816'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:11.177409+00:00'
---
`<ISSELECT>`

can be used for easily implementing drop-down list boxes in an HTML form. `<ISSELECT>`

replaces the HTML tag `<SELECT>`

and its supporting tags. With the [ iterator ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#ISMLTag-ISSELECT-iterator)attribute you can specify an iterator, whose elements appear in the list box. One element in the list box can be preselected by specifying a condition with the

`condition`

`true`

for only one element of the list, otherwise the browser may not display the list properly.<isselect name = "( {a name} | {ISML expression} )" iterator = "{ISML variable identifier}" [ condition = "{ISML expression}" ] value = "{ISML expression}" description = "{ISML expression}" [ encoding = "( on | off )" ] [ disabled = "( true | false )" ] >

In this example, `<ISSELECT>`

adds all elements of the iterator to an HTML list box that is generated.

<form action = ... > <ISSELECT name = "PaymentMethodUserSelection" iterator = "PaymentMethodChoices" condition = "#PaymentMethod == PaymentMethodChoices#" value = "#PaymentMethodChoices:UUID#" description = "#PaymentMethodChoices:Description#"> ... </form>

`name`

This attribute is required.

`name = simple name`


Specify a name for your list box.

Note

The name you specify here is used when the browser sends the user selection as a key value pair to the server. Therefore, the specified name must be equal to the input parameter required by the pipeline that will process the form values.

`iterator`

This attribute is required.

`iterator = loop variable`


Specifies a loop variable. All elements of the loop variable are added to the list box.

`value`

This attribute is required.

`value = string`


Text sent back by the browser to the server as the value of a key-value pair. This can be used, for example, to return an internal product ID instead of the product name displayed to the buyer. The string specified by value is stored in the pipeline dictionary. The appropriate key is determined by the `<ISSELECT>`

attribute name.

`description`

This attribute is required.

`description = string`


Text that is displayed to the buyer in the drop-down list box.

`condition`

This attribute is optional.

`condition = Boolean ISML Expression`


If `condition`

is `true`

, the appropriate list element is pre-selected. This has its counterpart in the `selected`

attribute of the `<option>`

HTML tag. Make sure that only one list element matches the condition to avoid unknown results in different browsers.

`encoding`

This attribute is optional.

`encoding = on | off`


Default value is `on`

. With this attribute you can explicitly switch automatic HTML encoding of the output `on`

and `off`

. Encoding means converting any special characters, such as ; <, >, &, ="=, as well as any named characters of HTML 4.01 (Unicode 160-255) into their HTML counterparts. For example, [<ISPRINT>](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1775992843/ISML+Tag+-+ISPRINT)converts the character > to the string \>\;.

`disabled`

This attribute is optional.

`disabled = true | false`


If set to `true`

, this attribute will disable the select box. The default value is `false`

.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.