---
id: 'edacc7cccbda127656656c41df0e7f24'
title: 'ISML Tag'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2473H2'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:12.702545+00:00'
---
`<ISPIPELINE>`

can be used to call a pipeline from an ISML template. The resulting pipeline dictionary of the executed pipeline is stored in the current pipeline dictionary, using a key provided by the attribute [ alias ](https://knowledge.intershop.com#ISMLTag-ISPIPELINE-alias).

<ispipeline pipeline = "( {String} | {ISML expression} )" [ params = "{ISML expression}" ] alias = "( {String} | {ISML expression} )" >

In this example, `<ISPIPELINE>`

executes the start node LoginCheck of pipeline `MyTestPipeline`

. Two parameters (param1, param2) are submitted to the pipeline via a Map object. The pipeline dictionary that results from executing `MyTestPipeline-LoginCheck`

is stored in the current pipeline dictionary under the `resultDict`

key.

<ISCreateMap mapname="ParameterName" key0="param1" value0="foo" key1="param2" value1="bar"> <ispipeline pipeline="MyTestPipeline-LoginCheck" params="#ParameterName#" alias="resultDict" />

`pipeline`

This attribute is required.

`pipeline = String | ISML expression`


This attribute specifies the name of the pipeline to be called. Allowed are text values and ISML expressions. If no start node is specified, the default start node name `Start`

is taken.

`alias`

This attribute is required.

`alias = String | ISML expression`


This attribute specifies the key under which the pipeline dictionary resulting from the execution of the called pipeline is stored in the current pipeline dictionary.

`params`

This attribute is optional.

`params = ISML Expression`


The attribute specifies the pipeline parameters. Allowed are ISML expressions only. The parameters can either be a `java.util.Map`

object implementation which is stored in the pipeline dictionary and contains all the parameter key-value pairs, or a parameter set which is defined manually using the [paramMap()](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1775689524/ISML+Function+-+paramMap), [paramEntry()](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1775689537/ISML+Function+-+paramEntry)and [parameter()](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1775689514/ISML+Function+-+parameter)functions.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.