---
id: 'edd55a628e97e7a6cf2f07ac452d8253'
title: 'Video Tutorial - Data Replication'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/284T87'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:39:37.937601+00:00'
---
This document replaces the outdated article with the ID 251N88 and the title *Video Tutorial: Intershop 7 Data Replication Tips & Tricks*.

Discover the Intershop 7 Data Replication feature. Learn something about how to keep shop information up to date without maintenance downtimes.

Data replication is a special mechanism used to transfer large amounts of data between two Intershop 7 clusters, i.e., from a source to a target system via fast mass-data operations.

Do you want to maintain store information in an edit system and quickly transfer to a live system?

No problem by using Intershop 7 Data Replication features - simply transfer product, component information with one click.

If you have small amounts of data, you can publish them to your live system with just the definition of the target cluster. There is a *Publish to Live System* - button integrated in the Intershop Commerce Management application. Its functionality will be explained in this tutorial.


The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.