---
id: 'ee53617ed806cf3dfe6ad20da10ce738'
title: 'Net/Gross Prices'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/S32181'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:03.592099+00:00'
---
# Net/Gross Prices

Generally, different business scenarios may require prices to be displayed either as net prices or as gross prices. Depending on the type of prices (net or gross) stored with the product data, some calculations may apply in order to display the prices correctly according to the intended business model, that is, either without the sales tax or including the sales tax. To this end, Intershop Commerce Management features a powerful price/tax calculation mechanism as well as flexible configuration options.

With respect to determining net/gross prices, the following details are important:

-
Price type

Specifies the type of prices (net or gross) as stored in the data repository. Must be set as part of the pricing preferences, see

[Managing Pricing Settings](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/operation_maintenance/topic_managing_pricing_and_shopping_cart_calculation_settings.html#task_pref_gen_pricing). -
Price display

Specifies, individually for each customer type, whether the storefront prices shown to this customer type are net prices or gross prices. Must be set as part of the pricing preferences, see

[Managing Pricing Settings](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/operation_maintenance/topic_managing_pricing_and_shopping_cart_calculation_settings.html#task_pref_gen_pricing). -
Tax calculation service

Calculates the possible difference between the given price type (net or gross) and the selected price display preference (net or gross), and propagates the applicable taxation data to any following process.

Intershop Commerce Management provides two standard services (Product VAT Exclusive Taxation and Product VAT Inclusive Taxation) that determine the net price or the gross price as required for display purposes, see

[Managing Tax Calculation Services](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/operation_maintenance/topic_managing_tax_calculation_services.html#task_pref_servTax). Other tax calculation services (custom or third-party) can be implemented on a project-specific base. -
Tax class

Product-specific setting that defines which tax class applies and must be used by the tax calculation service. Can be set as part of the product pricing, see

[Managing Product List Prices and Cost Prices](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/task_managing_product_list_prices_and_cost_prices.html).The default tax classes are "FullTax", "ReducedTax" and "NoTax". The available tax classes can be set up by the central administrator.


Be aware that when calculating net prices or gross prices, Intershop Commerce Management uses other taxation data like tax jurisdictions, tax classes, tax rates etc., which are defined by the system administrator. For detailed information about configuring taxation data, system administrators can refer to [Guide - Locales, Tax Data, Currencies and Exchange Rates](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2U7730).

The following table outlines the possible scenarios with respect to price type and price display, and indicates the (default) tax calculation service to be applied accordingly.

| Price type | Price display | Service | |
|---|---|---|---|
| A | net | net | Product VAT Exclusive Taxation |
| B | net | gross | Product VAT Exclusive Taxation |
| C | gross | net | Product VAT Inclusive Taxation |
| D | gross | gross | Product VAT Inclusive Taxation |