---
id: 'f02cf8845f2db0d0028b79fac857dee2'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/29X881'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:24.458508+00:00'
---
This guide outlines the basic setup and configuration steps for the Cybersource Service Connector.

The package is available via Intershop's Public Repository (Artifactory). Furthermore, the following preconditions are required:

To add the Cybersource Service Connector into your Intershop 7 system, you can either incorporate the cartridge into an already existing assembly or create a new assembly inheriting from an Intershop-7-based assembly. For details about creating a new assembly, see [Cookbook - Gradle Assembly Tools | Recipe: Create a New Assembly Inheriting From an Existing Assembly](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1826510692/Cookbook+-+Gradle+Assembly+Tools#Cookbook-GradleAssemblyTools-createInheritAssembly). If you want to incorporate the cartridge into an already existing assembly, perform the following steps:

Add the following to the *build.gradle* file of the assembly:

|

Insert the following lines into the file `intershopBuild.version`

to consume the desired version.

Example:

|

For details about adding components to an assembly, see[Recipe: Add Cartridges to an Assembly](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1826510692/Cookbook+-+Gradle+Assembly+Tools#Cookbook-GradleAssemblyTools-AddCartridgestoanAssembly).

For details about managing assembly artifacts see:

Before deploying the new assembly to a test or production environment, you may have to adjust some file-based configurations required by the Cybersource Service Connector.

The Cybersource Service Connector requires the following settings:

| Property | Description | Value |
|---|---|---|
| intershop.payment.CyberSource_CreditCard.currencies | Defines which currencies are configurable for Cybersource Credit Card. (Default: USD, EUR, GBP, AUD) | Comma-separated list of currency codes, e.g. USD, EUR, GBP, AUD |
| intershop.payment.cybersource.apiBaseUrl.sandbox | Defines the base URL used for requests to the Cybersource sandbox. Default: Leave at default value unless URL of API endpoint on Cybersource changes. | URL to the sandbox (provided by Cybersource) |
| intershop.payment.cybersource.apiBaseUrl.production | Defines the base URL used for requests to the Cybersource production environment. Default: Leave at default value unless URL of API endpoint on Cybersource changes. | URL to the production system (provided by Cybersource) |

According to[Recipe: Change Deployed File Content With Filters](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1848547085/Cookbook+-+Deployment+Tools+ICM+7.10#Cookbook-DeploymentToolsICM7.10-ApplyContentFilter) this setting has to be overridden within *<IS_SHARE>/system/config/cartridges/ac_payment_cybersource.properties*.

For details about adding new configuration files, see [Recipe: Deploy Custom Files](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1848547085/Cookbook+-+Deployment+Tools+ICM+7.10#Cookbook-DeploymentToolsICM7.10-DeployCustomFiles).

After having created and appropriately having configured the assembly, you must deploy it to the intended target environment.

For details about deploying an assembly, see [Cookbook - Deployment Tools ICM 7.10 | Recipe: Run the Deployment (Initial Installation / Upgrade / Downgrade)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1848547085/Cookbook+-+Deployment+Tools+ICM+7.10#Cookbook-DeploymentToolsICM7.10-Run-the-Deployment).

Note

The Cybersource Service Connector requires additional post-deployment configuration steps. For details, refer to [Guide - Setup Cybersource Service Connector#Configuration](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Guide-SetupCybersourceServiceConnector-Configuration).

With the release of version 1.0 of the Cybersource Service Connector, integration with [Intershop PWA](https://github.com/intershop/intershop-pwa) became available. Cybersource Service Connector 2 introduces a breaking change: the used Microform API has been updated to version 2, as the previous version reached its end-of-life.

To ensure compatibility, it is recommended to use PWA version 6.0.0. If upgrading to [PWA 6.0.0](https://github.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/releases/tag/6.0.0) is not possible, you will need to down port pull request [#1773](https://github.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/pull/1773) or, at a minimum, migrate the commits [5995045](https://github.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/pull/1773/commits/59950457d57d9f40e9f195099d3f1c9a925f82bd) and [3be68a1](https://github.com/intershop/intershop-pwa/pull/1773/commits/3be68a19f82a3e1a768c31df50bdee33410f1384) to the version of the PWA you are using.

In order to configure the payment service, a shared key has to be created in the Cybersource Enterprise Business Center (EBC) back office.

Copy the newly generated public key (optional: download the key file). The key is required for the [configuration of the managed service](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Guide-SetupCybersourceServiceConnector-CreateManagedPaymentService).

Note

The generated key is only visible in this step and this screen. The screen is no longer accessible later.

Go back to *Key Management* and click the link to the newly generated key.

Note

Both the key and key ID are required for the [configuration of the managed service](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Guide-SetupCybersourceServiceConnector-CreateManagedPaymentService).

Please follow the steps below to create a checkout API profile with TMS (Token management service) being enabled.

For more details refer to the [Payment configuration documentation](https://developer.cybersource.com/library/documentation/dev_guides/Secure_Acceptance_Checkout_API/html/index.html#t=Topics%2Fpayment_configuration.htm) or contact [CyberSource support](https://www.cybersource.com/en/support.html).

The Cybersource Service Connector requires some post-deployment configurations in the Organization Management application and in the Commerce Management application.

For details about enabling a payment service see [Cookbook - Payment | Recipe: Enable a Payment Service](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822573547/Cookbook+-+Payment#Cookbook-Payment-Recipe-EnableaPaymentService).

*External Base URL* is required for generating IFrames for input fields (credit card number and CV) for credit card payment method. In case of a wrong value for this configuration, the input fields will appear as blocked and the user will not be able to enter the values in these fields.

Go to* Services |* *Payment Services.*

Select the new payment service.

Click *Next*.

Enter a Payment Service Name.

Enter "Service ID".

Select the checkbox *Active.*

Select the checkbox *Available.*

Click *Next.*

Enter all Cybersource general settings.

Use the copied key and key ID obtained from the [key generation](https://knowledge.intershop.com#Guide-SetupCybersourceServiceConnector-Configuration) for the fields here:

*Merchant Key ID = key ID*

*Merchant Shared Secret = public key*

Enter all logging settings.

Enter all monitoring settings.

Click *Next.*

Select the *Sharing Rule.* (When setting up in the organization area, the service must necessarily be shared to the channel.)

Click *Finish.* The table below lists Cybersource-specific settings for configuring the payment service.

| Name | Payment Methods | Description |
|---|---|---|
| MerchantID | All | The merchant account's merchant ID as provided by Cybersource |
| RunEnvironment | All | Defines whether "Sandbox" for test and development is used or "Production" for production. |
| MerchantSecretKey | All | The merchant account's Shared Secret Key as provided by Cybersource |
| MerchantKeyId | All | The merchant account's API Key as provided by Cybersource |
| Capture | All | Capture "Auto" will automatically do authorization and capture in one step. Capture "Manual" separates authorization from capture process, so capture has to be done manually at the order when the items are shipped. |
| SubmitOrderDetails | All | This enables or disables the ability to send all product line items information to Cybersource. |
| SubmitAddressDetails | All | This enables or disables the ability to send shipping address information to Cybersource. |

To enable the payment method for the channel, log in to Commerce Management and perform the following steps:

The Cybersource Service Connector provides English, French and German localization files for payment-specific input field labels.

You can find the existing localization files here: *<IS.INSTANCE.SHARE>/system/cartridges/ac_payment_cybersource/release/localizations.*

For details about localization see [Concept - Localization](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1754628275/Concept+-+Localization).

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.