---
id: 'f0546acaba2235dab680e9ada6bc4481'
title: 'Guide - Intershop Commerce Platform DevOps'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2N9226'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:37:35.010627+00:00'
---
This document describes the DevOps processes for Intershop Commerce Management in the Intershop Commerce Platform context.

Intershop Commerce Platform follows the DevOps principles:

Iterative

Incremental

Continuous

Automated

Self-service

Collaborative

Holistic

When Azure DevOps is used, the "Azure Boards" is a good tool to do the planning.

Intershop | Partner | |
|---|---|---|
Documentation, Communication |
|
|
Requirements |
|
|
|
| |
|
| |
Checklist |
| |
Connect |
|
|
Test Infrastructure and Processes |
| |
Deployment Demo |
| |
Acceptance declaration |
|
|

For the collaboration between Intershop and the Intershop Commerce Platform Partner, a shared Confluence space will be set up.

Intershop development is typically Java-based and uses Git as source code repository. Developers can have a development environment on their local machine.

To kick-start the development process, Blueprint projects are available.

Intershop Commerce Management development in particular is done using Intershop Studio, a standard Eclipse with some Intershop-specific extensions. For more details, see [Overview - Intershop Studio.](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1789927974/Overview+-+Intershop+Studio)

An Intershop project used the Gradle multi-project build. See [Cookbook - Gradle Developer Workflow](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1822584007/Cookbook+-+Gradle+Developer+Workflow) for more information.

Intershop Commerce Management consists of several development artifacts which are described in [Overview - Development Artifacts.](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1787201403/Overview+-+Development+Artifacts)

Storefront development can be done using the classic approach with Intershop templates and pipelines or by using the new Progressive Web App. The PWA is the recommend approach for Intershop Commerce Platform.

For recommended customization options, please see [Guide - Intershop Commerce Platform - Customization Options](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1889741292/Guide+-+Intershop+Commerce+Platform+-+Customization+Options).

The REST API documentation can be found here: [http://developer.cloud.intershop.com.](http://developer.cloud.intershop.com/)

The Java API (JavaDoc) is available in Intershop Studio.

For more information see [Guide - 3rd Party Integration.]

Debugging the solution is possible as follows:

On HTTP basis

Pipeline debugging via Intershop Studio

Web development tools (CSS, JS, etc.)

JMX via SSH tunneling using the INT environment

Intershop basically takes over the setup on its own monitoring server

Access to DB schemas (read/write) of INT environment; sync with PRD environment is possible on-demand

The build process has to be set up as described here:

This needs some DevOps expertise on partner side. Due to that Intershop also provides the complete CI infrastructure. Intershop uses Azure DevOps for that purpose, also see [Guide - Azure DevOps for Intershop Commerce Platform Projects](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1889741301/Guide+-+Azure+DevOps+for+Intershop+Commerce+Platform+Projects).

Keep in mind that the environments PRD, UAT, and INT are not using development settings, e.g., the `CheckSource`

properties are generally set to `false`

. Make sure all custom ISML templates are compiled during the build process by applying Gradle plugin '`com.intershop.gradle.isml`

'!

Intershop provides frameworks for testing on all levels

Unit tests

Integration tests

User interface tests

Additionally, code quality checks and performances tests can be performed.

For details refer to [Overview - Test Frameworks.](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1782415529/Overview+-+Test+Frameworks)

A release is automatically created by the CI system when the code is tagged with a release label in Source Code Repository (e.g., Git). The release tag must be of the format RELEASE_x.x.x.

Snapshot releases cannot be deployed.

Deployment of the production system will be done by the Intershop operations team in collaboration with the Intershop Commerce Platform partner. The partner provides the release in the project artifact repository. From there it will be picked up by the Intershop deployment process, see [Guide - Intershop Commerce Platform Deployment Process (valid to 7.10)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1925218344).

Deployments of the pre-production/UAT and integration system can be triggered by the parter in self-service. For this purpose, access to a Jenkins web console will be provided by Intershop. This allows triggering of jobs like:

Deployment

Restart

Dump export/import

Shared file system sync

Database dump upload

etc.

DPLs are used in the following three environments:

INT (Integration)

UAT (User Acceptance Test)

PRD (Production)

These consist of a live and an edit cluster. The INT and UAT are also called PrePRD. Both environments share a DB infrastructure (VM). The data is separated for each cluster by schema (Oracle) or database (MS SQL Server).

General rules and guidelines for deployments in the Intershop Commerce Platform environment are listed in [Guide - Intershop Commerce Platform Deployment Process (valid to 7.10)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1925218344) to ensure a common understanding of rights and responsibilities.

A clear distinction is defined between the development phase and the Post-Go-Live phase. Deployments during the project phase, before a store is live, are:

Much more frequent

A lot less critical. So the process is less strict and the responsibilities are distributed differently.

During the development phase:

Deployments on all environments are done by the implementation partner. No arrangements have to be made with Intershop.

After Go-Live:

Deployments on INT and UAT are generally done by the implementation partner. No arrangements have to be made with Intershop.

Intershop resumes responsibility for deployments on PRD, since Intershop has to fulfill the SLAs.

Technical monitoring includes:

Responsibility:

Business Process Monitoring includes:

Responsibility:

Available tools and data sources:

Intershop System Management (SMC)

Access to the SMC is available after migration Intershop Commerce Management version 7.10.31.0. Fine grained permissions for SMC/Operations (IS-31719) introduced with this version allow to grant access to Intershop System Management.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.