---
id: 'f0718a7c3fae76d640b489702e128e1a'
title: 'ISML Function'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/297U63'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:40:18.002460+00:00'
---
Info

This function is available from ICM 7.10.21.

The function `pwaURL()`

is used in a template to dynamically generate a URL that is part of a link to the PWA application. The PWA base URL is configured in the property `ExternalApplicationBaseURL`

.

pwaURL(<urlPath>) pwaURL(<urlPath>, [<pwaQueryParameter>]...)

The following example shows how to generate the link to */products?SKU=foo&category=bar* for the PWA in the Backoffice:

<a src="#pwaURL('/products', pwaQueryParameter('SKU', 'foo'), pwaQueryParameter('category', 'bar'))#">To Product</a>

When the template is processed, the generated link replaces the ISML expression like (e.g. with "*http://localhost:4200*" set as base path):

<a src="http://localhost:4200/products?SKU=foo&category=bar">To Product</a>

Info

To return to the correct locale in the PWA storefront (e.g. the locale of the REST call that was used to trigger an email creation) the `pwaURL`

function always adds the current locale as matrix parameter to the generated URL.

For this reason the actually generated URL to a German PWA looks like this:

<a src="http://localhost:4200/products;lang=de_DE?SKU=foo&category=bar">To Product</a>

`urlPath`

The path reference to a specific page in the PWA.

`pwaQueryParameter`

This optional parameter can be used multiple times. Each `pwaQueryParameter`

will hold a key and a value to generate HTTP Query Parameters.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.