---
id: 'f0ac8e1cc5354fddf07db358557ca130'
title: 'Searching Products'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/407U99'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:30:44.093460+00:00'
---
# Searching Products

## Quick Product Search

-
Select Products in the dropdown list.
This enables the product search in the quick search box.
-
Specify the ID of a product, then press ENTER or click the Search button.
This produces the search result and immediately opens the matching product in the detail view. For more information about the search results page refer to
[Search Results Overview](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iom/master/iom_en/topics/getting_started/topic_general_search_options.html#search_results).Tip:The quick search box supports the wildcard characters ? and *.

## Simple Product Search

[User Interface Overview](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iom/master/iom_en/topics/getting_started/topic_user_interface_overview.html), and the Products section.To use the simple product search:

-
In the simple product search widget, specify your search criteria.
The available criteria include:
- Product type, including default, parent, variation, bundle
- Shops and suppliers, which can be selected and combined individually
- Product ID, which can be of different types or origins, including ISBN, EAN, manufacturer, shop, supplier, IOM
- Product name
- Manufacturer Tip:Entering the first letter(s) returns a list of possible manufacturer names that contain these letter(s).
- Commodity, which can be selected via

-
Click Find.
This produces the search result and displays the matching products in the result list. For more information about the search results page refer to
[Search Results Overview](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iom/master/iom_en/topics/getting_started/topic_general_search_options.html#search_results).Tip:Leaving the search criteria blank returns all products as the search result.

## Advanced Product Search

-
In the simple product search widget (see
[Simple Product Search](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iom/master/iom_en/topics/managng_products/topic_searching_products.html#task_item_search_simple)), click Advanced product search.This displays the advanced product search. -
Specify your search criteria.
Tip:You can use the wildcard characters ? and * (seeTo include additional details in your search, click Extended data to expand the corresponding fields.
[General Search Options](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iom/master/iom_en/topics/getting_started/topic_general_search_options.html#ov_ui_search)) for product ID (shop/supplier/IOM/manufacturer/ISBN/EAN), product name, and manufacturer. -
Click Find.
This produces the search result and displays the matching products in the result list. For more information about the search results page refer to
[Search Results Overview](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/iom/master/iom_en/topics/getting_started/topic_general_search_options.html#search_results).Tip:Leaving the search criteria blank returns all products as the search result.

## Result List Options

You can customize the product search result list to further refine your search, modify the result display, or trigger immediate actions.

| Option | Description |
|---|---|
| Allows to set the number of products per result page. | |
| Allows to switch the result pages. | |
| Triggers the CSV file download (see
|

- Availability
- Available Stock
- Blocked
- Cost price (net) (Supplier)
- EAN
- EOL
- Inventory
- ISBN
- Prod. ID (Intershop Order Management, Shop, Supplier, Manufacturer)
- Product name
- Product type
- Reserved
- Sales price (Shop)
- Shop
- Stock ratio
- Stock type
- Supplier