---
id: 'f2214842bc9db08b7a7d01bcbdde362f'
title: 'ISML Function'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2479H1'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:41:17.141778+00:00'
---
`urlex()`

extends the capabilities of

by allowing you to specify a particular protocol, host, and port for the URL to be generated.[url()](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1775690000/ISML+Function+-+url)

For instance, if you want to make sure that sensitive data like credit card numbers are transmitted safely, you might use the secure protocol HTTPS (rather than HTTP). In this case, you use the `urlex()`

function to specify that a protocol other than HTTP should be used.

urlex( <protocol>, [<portNumber>], <action - operation> ) urlex( <protocol>, [<portNumber>], <action - operation>, [<parameter - operation>] ) urlex( <protocol>, [<host>], [<portNumber>], <action - operation> ) urlex( <protocol>, [<host>], [<portNumber>], <action - operation>, [<parameter - operation>] )

a href ="#urlex('https','443',action('ViewBasketHistory-Start'))#"> ... link text to be displayed ... </a>

The following attributes are required:

Note

If <protocol>, <host> or <portNumber> are left unspecified or passed as empty strings, the according values are taken from the current request, or, if this fails, from the *appserver.properties* file.

`protocol`

This parameter is required.

`protocol = string`


The string that defines the part of a URL that contains information about the protocol. For example, you can set protocol to HTTPS or FTP.

`host`

This parameter is optional.

`host = string`


The string that defines the part of a URL that contains information about the host (for example, *www.intershop.com*).

`portNumber`

This parameter is optional.

`portNumber = string`


The string that defines the TCP/IP port number of the target pipeline. If not specified, the associated port of the given protocol will be used.

`action`

This parameter is required.

`action - operation`


Result of an

function call.[action()](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1775687382/ISML+Function+-+action)

`parameter`

This parameter is optional.

`parameter - operation`


Result of a

function call. The [parameter()](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1775689514/ISML+Function+-+parameter)`parameter()`

function may be included as often as needed in this function call.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.