---
id: 'f38acab2e4b03029e684447448b096b8'
title: 'Public Release Note'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/29824L'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:40:27.208337+00:00'
---
Intershop Order Management (IOM) is an application of the Intershop Commerce Suite (ICS) that is designed to combine omni-channel commerce processes into one system. It automates and streamlines the life cycle of orders and payments. IOM processes orders from multiple touch points (web shop, mobile shop, call center and more), allocates them to multiple fulfillment solutions (fulfillment centers, drop-ship distributors, physical stores and more), and tracks all order and payment transactions.

IOM offers a centralized platform for managing distributed inventory, order, invoice and payment life cycles, and provides call center functionality, enabling real-time visibility into customers' purchasing behavior, stock levels, payments, and more. As part of ICS, it utilizes the suite's transaction, PIM and merchandising features.

IOM offers the possibility to tailor your business models as flexible and free as you need and depict them in your e-commerce environment. The order management system adjusts the order processing for various sales channels and suppliers and can be seamlessly integrated with existing components of your IT environment.

Glossary

Term

Description

API

Application Programming Interface

Docker

An operating system-level virtualization software. Also see Kubernetes and Helm.

Helm

A package manager for Kubernetes. Also see Docker.

ICM

Abbreviation for Intershop Commerce Management

IOM

Abbreviation for Intershop Order Management

Kubernetes

An open-source system for automating deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications. Also see Docker and Helm.

OMS

Abbreviation for Order Management System, the technical name of the IOM

OMT

Abbreviation forOrder Management Tool, the graphical management tool of the IOM

Additional list of taxes at ShopUserMailPositionLO and ShopUserMailChargeLO

Previous tax values in ShopUserMailChargeLO and ShopUserMailPositionLO now contain the sum of all included taxes

Added location and tax name to ShopUserMailTaxLO

Invoice-pdf data:

The name of the tax type has been added to the type TaxPrices

Note

The taxes that are available at the invoice position level aggregate the included tax list. There is no possibility to drill down into the single tax items.

Enhancements in Setup and Operations

Datadog Application Performance Monitoring (APM)

IOM now supports sending DataDog APM data to a locally installed Datadog daemon-set. To enable and control sending of DataDog APM data, IOM Helm Charts (version 1.3.0 or newer) are required. Please see Guide - Operate Intershop Order Management 3.X for a complete list of according helm parameters.

Datadog Application Performance Monitoring allows fine-grained performance analysis. The screenshot shows an example:

Update of Infrastructure Components

Following infrastructure components were updated:

IOM config image is now based on alpine:3.13

IOM now uses AdoptOpenJDK 11.0.10+9

Interfaces

New Version of IOM REST APIOrder 2.1

Multiple taxes are already there, but they are decoupled from TaxDefDO now and additionally can be set as free text.

Added rate and location therefore

Added undocumented constraints

The specification can be found in the delivery doc/REST/or in theKnowledge Base.

[IOM-10956] Deprecated get|setOrderPropertyList of OrderDO, get|setShippingBucketPropertyList() of ShippingBucketDO and get|setOrderPosPropertyList() of OrderPosDO, use get|setPropertyList() instead

[IOM-11060] NullPointerException in ArticleSupplierShopDO

Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.