---
id: 'f391f91d19a7f15d9dd25868cbcd687f'
title: 'Support Article'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/286U77'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:39:56.935748+00:00'
---
This document replaces the outdated article with the ID 25980M and the same title.

The Knowledge Base (KB) is a searchable database in which different document types of technical documentation are aggregated. These vary from traditional manuals to dynamic concepts, cookbooks, guides, video tutorials and many more.

You can access it via [https://support.intershop.com/kb/index.php](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php).

The content of the Intershop Knowledge Base is targeted to technicians working with Intershop Software. Therefore, only persons with a background that is validated with a Support contract can access it. This background can either be a declaration as "named contact" by the contract holder or you can register yourself individually ("verified contact") using the e-mail address of a contract holding company or tell us the contract ID of your company: [https://support.intershop.com/sws/index.php/Account/Register](https://knowledge.intershop.com/sws/index.php/Account/Register). Such a self-registered “KB only” account may serve the Knowledge Base to be able to solve smaller issues that could occur in your everyday work with Intershop software. Additionally, one can comment and rate the KB documents. "Named contacts" have extended rights: opening Tickets, downloading updates and maintaining the contact sheet.

The Knowledge Base is filled with documents of different types, each one targeting a different use case. There are:

This area targets technicians in general.

Support Articles are not part of the official documentation and mostly contain workarounds or tips and tricks that come from the daily work of our support engineers.

This section contains the Support Newsletter *TechTalk *which is sent quarterly to all the users of the KB [which are subscribed to it](https://support.intershop.de/sws/index.php/Newsletter). The newsletter informs about:

This section also contains GA Announcements.

Video Tutorials are meant to instruct, teach and explain Intershop features on an audiovisual level.

Product Development Documents are targeted to developers to help them customize Intershop software.

No software is free of errors. Here, solved issues are documented.

These documents are a collection of training or presentation material.

In the Intershop Knowledge Base you can extend your know-how of Intershop Software. You can search or browse documents, read and comment them.

Yes, you can use the RSS Feed to be informed about new documents. The URL is [https://support.intershop.com/sws/index.php/RssFeed/Docs](https://knowledge.intershop.com/sws/index.php/RssFeed/Docs) or use the button to subscribe:

Picking the right document in the Knowledge Base mostly requires a two-step search: You need a search phrase in the textbox and to set filters in the left side navigation. Executing only one of these steps works, too, but the search result page may not be specified enough. To do a text search, type in a string of your choice, then hit “enter”. You are now on the Knowledge Base Search Result page and have the possibility to narrow down your results by using filters on the left side navigation.

This graphic presents the structure and functionalities of the Search Results page:

| Position # | Description |
|---|---|
| 1 | Product and Version filter |
| 2 | Date and Relevance Sorting |
| 3 | Product Documentation and Product Issues |
| 4 | Document title |

A useful functionality is the sorting mechanism. There are two options: Relevance (based on a formula concerning keyword counting, title and document type) and Date. Use it to sort the search results as you need it. You can also change the number of results per page. The two tabs “Product Documentation” and “Product Issues” will help you to concentrate on your search phrase. If you are looking for the solution for an error message, focusing on defects may help. Otherwise you can exclude them to minimize the number of search results.

If you found an interesting document, click on the title to open it. Sometimes (readmes, javadocs, etc.) there is just a .zip file download link, no document page. If this is the case, use the .zip file for your desired task.

If you have a regular document, you can read it on its page.

| Position # | Description |
|---|---|
| 1 | Document title |
| 2 | ongoing information |
| 3 | Document ID |
| 4 | Properties |

If you do not want to start with a text search, for example you want to have an overview of all the documents related to a certain topic, you can skip the text search and start by browsing the Knowledge Base right from its Homepage:

Yes, at the bottom of each document page, you will find a feedback section:

You can use the free text form (which opens after answering the question if the article was helpful or not) to give additional information, add a comment or contact us if something needs to be edited within the document.

Your note will be sent to the technical writer, who publishes it and, if necessary, escalates the document to be edited, extended, corrected. The technical writer or the responsible engineer can also comment, if something needs to be added to a note.

If the issue (e.g. a broken link) given in the note is fixed, the note will be deleted to avoid misconceptions.Your feedback will be submitted to us just by clicking the radio button. No further submission is required.

The official product documentation (Manuals, online help) is created by the dedicated documentation department at Intershop. They rely on Quality Assurance, legal frameworks and global documentation guidelines.

Concepts, Cookbooks, References and Guides are maintained by Intershops Products & Engineering Teams and edited by technical writers. Support Articles are written by support engineers and also edited by a technical writer to ensure conformity.

Video Tutorials are a collaboration of support engineers, developers, the Training Department and technical writers. Presentations, Micro Trainings and other various documents are published by the responsible persons who create their contents.

You can use the comment functionality to contact the individual authors, if you need to or write an e-mail to [kbadmin@intershop.de](mailto:kbadmin@intershop.de).

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.