---
id: 'f43c7c2d6cc3b8b6b766313ff52b3c78'
title: 'Managing Gifting Options'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3227M6'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:43.313178+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/3227M6

# Managing Gifting Options

Available gifting options are bound to products using the specific link types Gift Wrap and Gift Message. To create a gifting relation for a product:
-
Locate the product for which you want to define a gifting link.
-
Click the name of the product.
The General tab of the Standard Product dialog is displayed.

-
On the General tab, select the Gift Wrap checkbox.
-
Change to the Links tab.
This displays all category links and product links already defined.

-
In the Product Links section, click New.
The Link Type dialog is displayed.

-
Select the intended link type (Gift Wrap | Gift Message) and click Next.
The product list view is displayed.

-
Locate the gifting product intended to act as the link target, select the corresponding checkbox, and click Finish.
The selected gifting product is now displayed in the Product Links section on the

Links tab of the Standard Product dialog.


## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.