---
id: 'f60f5812df904f36fee278c880082fa7'
title: 'Table of Contents'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3125E7'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:46.221377+00:00'
---
A new REST API allows the design view to be used in conjunction with the Intershop Progressive Web App in the Intershop Admin Portal.

The design view for PWA improves the editing of storefronts by allowing content managers to update the content of components, resulting in significant time savings. The first iteration focuses on component management.

Sales agents within the Customer Engagement Center or other call center applications can now browse the sales channel in the PWA storefront on behalf of a customer during a contact session. By starting an impersonation session, the agent is automatically logged into the storefront using the customer’s credentials. This allows the agent to see exactly what the customer sees, including catalogs, products, prices, and promotions, providing a more accurate understanding of the customer's experience.

The Product and Catalog Management REST API provides resources for executing all major actions required to manage products and catalogs in Intershop Commerce Management. It supports product and category CRUD operations at both organization and channel level. This API serves as a fast and easy alternative or complement to XML import and export. It allows for a seamless integration into Product Information Management (PIM) and Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems.

In modern software development, adaptability and customization are of great importance. In response to this requirement, Intershop introduced pre-integrated custom fields.

These serve as a dynamic solution that allows developers to easily define new attribute fields that can be seamlessly integrated into the checkout process.

To manage these custom fields, Intershop provides a versatile key-value entry system within a property file. The custom fields can be controlled through simple configuration and can be automatically displayed/inserted/exported at various locations.

Buyers can now search/filter their order history by parameters such as creation date time frame, product ID, and more.

In addition, order history paging is now available.

The Price Webhook enables Intershop Commerce Management (ICM) to retrieve prices from external systems using a predefined standardized REST API.

This allows for an easy setup of real time price pulls from 3rd party systems.

This feature allows system integrators to define time zones for individual jobs or schedules within the system. This ensures that job execution times are automatically adjusted to the selected time zone and that changes due to Daylight Saving Time are taken into account without manual intervention.

Customization has been separated from the ICM core product. This allows for independent updates in customer projects, meaning easier migrations to the latest ICM version.

The handling of baskets when changing and recalculating baskets with more than 20 items has been significantly improved.

Intershop provides a preconfigured development environment in Azure DevOps, which significantly improves project speed. The semi-automated infrastructure and application roll-out significantly reduces setup time in new projects. A faster, parallelized incremental build and test process, streamlined deployment of applications through GitOps methodology, and automated integration branch deployment to the INT environment contribute to increased efficiency. In addition, the Kubernetes deployment process has been significantly accelerated.

Overall, these aspects facilitate shorter development times and earlier go-lives.

DevOps processes were significantly improved. ICM 11 now intelligently manages downtime for database changes and supports autoscaling for ICM 11 jobs with Kubernetes jobs. The introduction of rolling and zero-downtime deployments ensures high consistency in deployed services, reduced downtime, and service interruptions.

These improvements make the platform environment more robust and reliable, leading to increased customer satisfaction through fewer disruptions.

Improved up-scaling capabilities and the adoption of JDK 17, Tomcat 10, Gradle 7, and approximately 230 library updates enhance security and performance. The adoption of Kubernetes (K8s) for container orchestration ensures state-of-the-art technology utilization.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.