---
id: 'f612452c8d7fa18ec74ab4c2fff059fd'
title: 'Guide - Intershop PWA'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/30817Y'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:33.915840+00:00'
---
To enable Store Locator, add `storeLocator`

to the feature list in your environment file.

This will enable a page where users can search for stores based on a country, city and/or postal code.

Store Locator provides an optional Google Maps integration using the Google Maps JavaScript API.

This feature is optional and requires the backend to serve stores with latitude and longitude.

To enable Google Maps integration add `maps`

to the feature list in your environment file and provide a API key as `gmaKey`

in your environment file or via the `GMA_KEY`

environment variable.

It's possible to provide custom images for the default and highlighted icons on the map.

To do so, provide a configuration object through the `STORE_MAP_ICON_CONFIGURATION`

injection token in the `store-locator-routing.module.ts`

.

Infos on how to obtain an API KEY can be found [here](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/javascript/get-api-key#creating-api-keys).

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.