---
id: 'f6a839b3e6259baec6810f138498a45a'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2Z9649'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:40:40.228660+00:00'
---
With [IOM-9502](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/o/51078) - Removed deprecated ShopDO.ceo the column `ShopDO.ceo`

was removed. Please make sure that your business configurations do not use it any longer. Also the `ceo`

cannot be used in documents any longer.

Make sure that all configurations and implementations regarding the removed sales-channel-feature are not used any longer. The following list will give you hints on where to find possible configurations.

The following tables for configurations were removed:

Also refer to [Guide - IOM Shop Onboarding (2.9 - 2.17)](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/1828425029) for information on affected business configurations.

Make sure that **configurations** and **implementations** regarding the removed bonus-points-feature are not used any longer. The following lists will give you hints where to find possible configurations.

The following message queues are removed. Make sure you do not to run them any longer.

The following quartz jobs are removed. Make sure you do not to run them any longer.

The following tables for configurations are removed:

Selected columns for configurations are removed:

Entries that were in relation to the feature for configurations are removed:

Make sure that **configurations** and **implementations** regarding the removed order merge feature are not used any longer. The following lists will give you hints where to find possible configurations.

The following message queue is removed. Make sure you do not to run it any longer.

The following quartz job isremoved. Make sure you do not to run itany longer.

The following table and class is removed:

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.