---
id: 'f79a9afeb33b7e576fc59eb07bae9a40'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/H30689'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:38:18.922024+00:00'
---
This guide provides information about the new file upload validation feature. This update might cause migration efforts on custom source projects.

| Term | Description |
|---|---|
ICM | Intershop Commerce Management |
| RSS | The Intershop responsive starter store — the demo store with which most ICM customizing projects start to develop and customize the ICM platform |
| SFS | Shared File System — a folder and subfolder structure in ICM where files are uploaded for later use (images, attachments, etc.). |
| PWA | Intershop Progressive Web App — the storefront that uses the ICM REST API. |

There are a variety of files that can be uploaded to the ICM's Shared File System (SFS) and used in the RSS-based online shop or the PWA.

By default, this is possible for the most common file extensions. Additional required file extensions can be configured.

This document describes how to change the configuration or disable the entire feature.

The [Cookbook - File Uploads Validation | Recipe: How to Change the Global Configuration](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48259105312/Cookbook+-+File+Uploads+Validation#Cookbook-FileUploadsValidation-ChangeGlobalConfiguration) explains how to change the default behavior of the feature.

It allows to change the file extensions or disable the media type check. You may also disable the whole feature to return to the state before the release.

Several code changes were made to implement this feature.

In case your custom code replaces some of them, this feature might not work everywhere or not work at all.

In the [Cookbook - File Uploads Validation](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48259105312/Cookbook+-+File+Uploads+Validation) there are example code snippets for [ISML Templates](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48259105312/Cookbook+-+File+Uploads+Validation#Cookbook-FileUploadsValidation-DiscussionForBackOfficeTemplates) and [Pipelines](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48259105312/Cookbook+-+File+Uploads+Validation#Cookbook-FileUploadsValidation-DiscussionForBackOfficePipelines), which explain what to look for.

To all pipelines above in Start-Node upload, call nodes have been added to:

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.