---
id: 'f7e5a60f18bf76a1a2643417ad9b750b'
title: 'Configuring Promotion Messaging'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3256F7'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:22.003277+00:00'
---
# Configuring Promotion Messaging

-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Marketing | Promotions.
This displays the list of all promotions in the current sales channel.
-
Click the name of the promotion you intend to edit.
This opens the detail view for the promotion.
-
Select the Messaging tab.
The tab displays a number of individually configurable messages, one for each content snippet.
- Select the language for the content from the drop-down list, then click Apply.
-
Compose the content using the provided editors.
See the following table for details:
Table 1. Configuring Promotion Messaging Content Snippet Description Icon To add an icon to the promotion messaging content, click the *Insert / Edit Image*icon () in the menu bar of the editor and specify the image URL attribute. The icon will later be displayed next to the title component on configured product-related pages, such as the product detail page.Title The title will be displayed along with the icon on configured pages, e. g., the product detail page and shopping cart page. Long Title The long title is the promotion message that is displayed on the configured pages, e. g., on the product detail page and promotion details pop-up. Rule Description The rule description is a description of the promotion conditions. It is displayed in the promotion details pop-up. Legal Content The legal content is a promotion-specific disclaimer displayed in a promotion details pop-up. If you leave that text field empty, then the default legal content as specified for the application will be displayed instead, see [Managing Promotion Preferences at Application Level](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/operation_maintenance/task_managing_promotion_preferences.html).Alternatively, instead of defining the content of the promotion details in the editor, you can select the Use External URL checkbox and specify the URL of an external resource to be referenced by the promotion details link.

In case you do not want to display any promotion messages:

Note:If you select the Disable Messages checkbox even though you have stored configurations for promotion messages, they will be retained in the Messaging tab but will not be displayed on the product-related pages.Select the Disable Messages checkbox only in case you do not want to store any configuration for action messages. Otherwise, an empty or incomplete description will be displayed on the product details page, shopping cart page, and in the promotion details pop-up.