---
id: 'f7fae9f55c075a74fffa5bd67f731c01'
title: 'Configuring Promotion Conditions'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/325U66'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:22.229751+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/325U66

# Configuring Promotion Conditions

To configure conditions for a promotion rule:
-
Select the channel from the context selection box, then select Marketing | Promotions.
This displays the list of all promotions in the current sales channel.

-
Click the name of the promotion you intend to edit.
This opens the details view for the promotion.

-
Select the Discount Rules tab.
The tab shows all rules currently configured for the promotion. If no rules have been configured so far, the tab shows a single empty rule.

-
Add a new condition.
In the promotion condition section of the rule you want to edit, click New, to add a new condition. A drop down list with available condition types is displayed.

-
From the drop-down list, choose a condition type, then click Apply.
Depending on the selected condition type, more configuration steps may be required. For a description of the available options and further information you may have to provide for configuring the different condition types, see

[Discount Rules](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/online_marketing/topic_discount_rules.html#con_mkt_promo_rules).

-
Once you have entered all required information, click OK to finally create the new condition.
If required, repeat the steps just described to add more conditions.

-
Combine conditions with logical operators.
If you have configured more than one condition for a rule, the conditions must be combined by the logical operators AND or OR. Choose the preferred operator from the left-hand side drop-down list and click Apply to save all changes.


## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.