---
id: 'f96eb51dfc6b9d3fc83e4fdda3686e23'
title: 'Assigning Products Using Filters'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3222T1'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:51.092742+00:00'
---
# Assigning Products Using Filters

[Predefined Product Filters](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/concept_predefined_product_filters.html).

[Search Index Services](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/operation_maintenance/concept_search_index_services.html).

To manage dynamic product-category assignments:

-
Navigate to the category level at which you want to work.
Select the intended management context from the context selection box, then select Catalogs | Catalogs. Then click the catalog and category names until you reach the intended category level.
-
Click the icon in the row of the category you intend to edit.
This opens the category detail view. Categories shared from a parent management context cannot be edited but only viewed ().
-
In the Product Assignment section on the General tab, select Assign Products dynamically.
This displays the product filter edit dialog as described in
[Editing Product Filter Rules](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/task_editing_product_filter_rules.html). -
Edit the rules as required in each section.
The following options are available:
-
Category

Specifies the catalog category to which the product filter search operation is restricted. Clicking the Select button opens a wizard for selecting the intended category. Clicking Clear removes the category restriction.

-
Filter Condition

Specifies the text values (for text attributes) or value ranges (for numeric attributes) intended to be retrieved by the filter.

-
Sorting

Specifies the sorting of the retrieved result set. The sorting attribute is independent of the defined filter condition.

Weighting

Specifies a weighting for specific attribute values.


-
-
Click Apply to save your settings.
Otherwise, click Reset to discard your changes.