---
id: 'f9744fcb24c0116ba3bc93edaad25591'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3112M4'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:21.687465+00:00'
---
This guide provides instructions on how customers or partners can override the standard ICM-AS e-mail templates in a customization. Overriding default e-mail templates in ICM-AS is straightforward, and this guide provides all the necessary information and sources of the default template files.

The template sources are not delivered with the ICM-AS Docker images. To facilitate customization, two file bundles containing all the template sources are attached here. Please download and extract these archives to access the template files:

[app_sf_headless_emails_b2b.zip](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Deliver/DOC/3112M4/app-sf-headless-emails-b2b.zip) (B2B-specific extensions and overrides)

[app_sf_headless_emails.zip](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Deliver/DOC/3112M4/app-sf-headless-emails.zip) (standard templates and common template includes)

Review the email templates available in ICM-AS and identify the one you want to customize. The template files are organized thematically in their respective folders.

To overwrite an existing template, the name and location must match. Use the same directory structure within the customization cartridge as in the sources.

If the customization cartridge for the new e-mail templates is named `my_customization_emails`

, all the templates must be located below the base folder `my_customization_emails/src/main/isml/my_customization_emails`

.

The template `app_sf_headless_emails/default/email/order/OrderEMailNotification.isml`

can therefore be overwritten with the template `my_customization_emails/src/main/isml/my_customization_emails/default/email/order/OrderEMailNotification.isml`

in the customization.

To compile the customized ISML e-mail template files and make them available in the customization Docker image, it is essential to include the ISML Gradle plugin in your build file.

// build.gradle.kts example plugins { id("com.intershop.gradle.isml") // other plugins } description = "Customization - headless REST customized e-mails" dependencies { cartridge("com.intershop.platform:core") cartridge("com.intershop.platform:isml") // other required dependencies }

Also, make sure that the cartridge containing your customized templates is in your application's cartridge list. This step is critical for the new templates to effectively override the existing ones.

<!-- apps.component example --> <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?> <components xmlns="http://www.intershop.de/component/2010"> <fulfill requirement="selectedCartridge" of="intershop.REST.Cartridges" value="my_customization_emails"/> <!-- other cartridge registrations --> </components>

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.