---
id: 'f9c3c794ba3879c222742d6dff652650'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/2Y8799'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:21.462147+00:00'
---
This document replaces the outdated article with the ID 2K2618 and the title *Intershop Commerce Insight (ICI) Technical Report Levels.*

ICI offers various technical Reports: Basic, Extended, Market and Hoster Reports. This article offers general information on them.

ICI reports show all activities of your Intershop installation and visitors to your store in detail. Multiple report categories are available and every user can view tailored statistics to the user's area of responsibility.

Basic Reports are available to all customers with a valid platform or support contract. They provide essential technical information to get an overview of your installation:

Extended Reports are available as additional option. The following report categories are part of the Extended Reports:

Analyze site-specific data on system functionality:

Analyze customer behavior across the entire system or per site:

Leverage cross-system performance and utilization reports to support smooth technical operation:

Please contact us if you are interested in the Extended reports.

Comparability to other tools

Information about sessions cannot be directly compared with other tools like google analytics because they are counted in another way.

Request which are identified as crawler/bots and not receiving a SID are counted as single-click session by the ICI.

For questions regarding your contract status, please contact your responsible Customer Success Manager or Sales Representative.

For questions regarding the ICI or any other technical issue, please contact [the Support Team](http://service.intershop.com).

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.