---
id: 'fc462948ccbb487e82a7a1f88ffcb886'
title: 'Managing Product Recommendation Events'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/Z32812'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:31:26.493389+00:00'
---
## Document Properties

Doc Type

Commerce Management Help

Document Link

https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/Z32812

# Managing Product Recommendation Events

The Recommendation Engines preferences manager allows to define which events should be tracked by which engine and which engine should handle which recommendation requests. To do so:
-
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Preferences.
This displays the Preferences overview page.

-
Select Recommendation Engines.
The details page is displayed.

-
Edit the settings as required.
In the Events section, select the recommendation engine intended to handle the individual events. In the Requests section, select the recommendation engine intended to handle the individual requests, respectively.

Note: The list of available events and requests depends on the functionality delivered by the recommendation engine integration deployed to your system.

-
Click Apply to save your settings.
Otherwise, click Reset to discard your changes.


## Disclaimer

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications
will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section
of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs
or other data on your information handling system.