---
id: 'fc715ee5a262015258dfc11008de9b3f'
title: 'Viewing the Product Overview'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/323P20'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:31.832078+00:00'
---
# Viewing the Product Overview

The Product Overview section displays statistical information and status reports about products. The displayed information is filtered by language and currency.

To display the product overview:

-
Select the channel from the context selection box.
This opens the navigation bar of the channel.
-
In the navigation bar, select Catalogs | Product Completeness.
This displays the overview page.
-
In the Product Overview section, click the Update button.
This retrieves the current information.Note:The Update button is only available on editing systems within data replication environments, see
[Data Replication](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/operation_maintenance/topic_data_replication.html#con_mdata_rep).

The left column of the Product Overview displays overall product statistics, including

-
Number of Products

-
Number of Bundles

-
Number of Bundled Products

-
Number of Variation Masters

-
Number of Variation Products

-
Number of Retail Sets

-
Number of Parts of Retail Sets


The right column of the Product Overview displays some status reports, including:

-
Products without list price

-
Products without tax

-
Products without short description

-
Products without long description

-
Products currently online

-
Products currently offline

-
Products out of stock

-
Products not assigned to category


Clicking an overview entry opens the advanced search, presenting the queried data (i.e., the overview element) in the result list. You can add further search criteria to narrow the result.

[Product Approval](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/catalogs_products/concept_product_approval.html).