---
id: 'fd3341ccc4743b28cc93450b5402eada'
title: 'Managing Classification Attributes'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32274E'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:33:42.849435+00:00'
---
# Managing Classification Attributes

To manage classification attributes:

-
Navigate to the category level at which you want to work.
Select the intended management context from the context selection box, then select Catalogs | Catalogs. Then click the catalog and category names until you reach the intended category level.
-
Click the icon in the row of the category you intend to edit.
The Category dialog is displayed.
-
Change to the Classification Attributes tab.
A list of all attributes which have already been defined for this category is displayed. Click on an attribute to edit it.
-
Click New.
The New Classification Attribute dialog is displayed.
-
Fill in the Name, Category ID, and the Description fields for the category.
The Description field is optional.
-
Define data type, value range and default value
The default data type is String. In addition, Double and Integer are available as data types. If you want to predefine attribute values, provide the possible values in the field Value Range. Each possible value must be declared explicitly, with multiple values separated by a | (pipe symbol). These values will be presented to the product manager in a drop-down list. Finally, a default value can be defined which is applied if no other selection has been made.
- Click Apply for settings to take effect.