---
id: 'fdfeb71922100f9429220159455dfc8c'
title: 'Guide - Intershop PWA'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/30C736'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:34:39.295601+00:00'
---
This guide describes how to propagate additional configuration from the outside into the PWA client application to be used on the storefront.

Configuration parameters can be provided from different sources.

If properties just have to be provided as compile time settings in the Angular CLI environment files like *src/environments/environment.ts*, you can theoretically access them in any source file directly.

However we recommend creating [InjectionTokens](https://angular.io/api/core/InjectionToken) and [providing](https://angular.io/guide/dependency-injection-providers#non-class-dependencies) them in modules like the `ConfigurationModule`

.

This option provides the easiest approach.

Different configurations can be provided while building the sources with Angular CLI.

Specific properties can also be supplied by URL parameters (i.e. *shop.de/home;foo=bar*).

The multi-channel configuration handling basically uses this method of configuration to dynamically provision a PWA server-side rendering run for a specific channel.

Currently all of those properties are transferred into *src/app/core/store/configuration*.

If you want to add another property, add it to the `ConfigurationState`

and add the extraction handling in `ConfigurationEffects`

.

It gets more complicated, when properties from environment variables have to be transferred to the Angular client application.

Environment parameters from the browser cannot be accessed as the browsers basically sandbox all websites for security reasons.

What can be accessed are environment parameters of the environment the server-side rendering process is running in.

This can be the Docker environment (arguments passed by an orchestrator like Kubernetes or Docker Swarm) or the local environment for debug purposes.

See also [Guide - Building and Running Server-Side Rendering](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/g/intershop/intershop-pwa/blob/develop/docs/guides/ssr-startup.md)

In general the extraction is as follows:

For extracting the environment property, you can use the methods of the `StatePropertiesService`

.

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.