---
id: 'fe30a6c1073960705fedafe88d239476'
title: 'Public Release Note'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/3108E3'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:35:36.209894+00:00'
---
Welcome to the repositories for Local Development Environment. This solution provides you access to the Intershop Commerce Platform artifacts.

This document provides important product information, including version information and dependencies. It also outlines the basic setup and configuration steps.

Latest releases of Intershop Commerce Management, Intershop Progressive Web App and Intershop Order Management are available.

To gain access, submit a Service Desk ticket. You will then receive access information.

To set up your local development environment, [Guide - Intershop Commerce Platform Development](https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/go.php/a/ENFDEVDOC/pages/48020128867) will guide you through the process.

Access to Intershop Commerce Platform artifacts (ICM 11+, PWA, IOM) within Azure DevOps ACR for local development

Access to template projects

Only the most recent releases are available

User accounts are disabled to the end of the month after 14 days of inactivity at the end of the month or 60 days after initial activation at the end of the month. If you notice that your account has become inaccessible after a period of inactivity, please submit a support ticket.

Intershop Commerce Platform Standard SLAs do not apply.

: Release of the initial version

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.