---
id: 'ffad0c9f9df329439da70545c5862ee3'
title: 'Guide'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/281Q25'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:36:55.974603+00:00'
---
The following configurations and deployments are required to support the correct interaction between the Intershop 7 application server and the Oracle Database.

The Intershop 7 application server requires specific Oracle client JAR files. The Intershop 7 setup does not install these Oracle JAR files, as Intershop cannot accept the Oracle OTN License Agreement and restrictions especially for the distribution of the Oracle *oci-client*, *ojdbc*.jar* and *ucp.jar* on behalf of Intershop's customers. The customers must obtain these files themselves.

This glossary describes the terms in this document:

IS_HOME | The environment variable specifying the Intershop 7 home directory on the local host. |
|---|---|
IS_SHARE | The environment variable specifying the Intershop 7 shared file system. |
ORACLE_HOME | The environment variable specifying the directory path where the Oracle client or server software is installed. |
System Identifier (SID) | The Oracle system identifier (SID) identifies a specific instance of the running Oracle software. For a Oracle Real Application Clusters database, each node within the cluster has an instance referencing the database. |
Port | Number of the port where the Oracle server listens for requests. A number used by TCP/IP that identifies the end point for a connection to a host that supports multiple simultaneous connections. |
Host | A single standalone instance address. |
RAC-node, VIP | A virtual IP address for each node. |
SERVICE_NAME | To identify the Oracle database database service to access. |
JDBC | An industry-standard Java interface for connecting to a relational database from a Java program, defined by Sun Microsystems. |
Implicit Connection Caching (ICC) | Connection caching, generally implemented in the middle tier, is a means of keeping and using cache of physical database connections. The implicit connection cache is an improved Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) 3.0-compliant connection cache implementation for DataSource. Java and Java2 Platform, Enterprise Edition (J2EE) applications benefit from transparent access to the cache, support for multiple users, and the ability to request connections based on user-defined profiles. |
Universal Connection Pool (UCP) | The Universal Connection Pool (UCP) for JDBC provides a connection pool implementation for caching JDBC connections. Java applications that are database-intensive use the connection pool to improve performance and better utilize system resources. |
Fast Connection Failover (FCF) | Fast Connection Failover provides high availability to FAN integrated clients, such as clients that use JDBC, OCI, or ODP.NET. If you configure the client to use fast connection failover, then the client automatically subscribes to FAN events and can react to database UP and DOWN events. In response, Oracle gives the client a connection to an active instance that provides the requested database service. |
Fast Application Notification (FAN) | Applications can use FAN to enable rapid failure detection, balancing of connection pools after failures, and re-balancing of connection pools when failed components are repaired. The FAN notification process uses system events that Oracle publishes when cluster servers become unreachable or if network interfaces fail. |
Oracle Notification Services (ONS) | A publish and subscribe service for communicating information about all FAN events. |
Single Client Access Name (SCAN) | Oracle Database 11g database clients (or higher) use SCAN to connect to the database. SCAN can resolve to multiple IP addresses, reflecting multiple listeners in the cluster handling public client connections. |
Real Application Clusters (RAC) | Option that allows multiple concurrent database instances to share a single physical database. |

**Oracle required JAR files**:

Intershop | Oracle | Oracle Home | Download Source | Intershop Location | Required for | Required for |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| ICM 7.6 and later | |||||
| ORACLE_HOME/jdbc/lib/ojdbc7.jar or
| IS_SHARE/system/cartridges/3rd_oracle/release/lib | yes | yes | |
| ORACLE_HOME/ucp/lib/ucp.jar or
| IS_SHARE/system/cartridges/3rd_oracle/release/lib | yes | yes | |
|
| IS_SHARE/system/cartridges/3rd_oracle/release/lib | no | yes | |
Intershop 7.5 | |||||
|
|
| yes | yes | |
|
|
| yes | yes | |
|
| IS_SHARE/system/cartridges/3rd_oracle/release/lib | no | yes | |
| Intershop 7.4 CI | |||||
| ORACLE_HOME/jdbc/lib/ ojdbc6.jar or
|
| yes | yes | |
| ORACLE_HOME/ucp/lib/ ucp.jar or
|
| yes | yes | |
|
| IS_SHARE/system/cartridges/3rd_oracle/release/lib | no | yes |

1 Intershop versions prior to the Continuous Integration approach required to manually copy these **.jar* files to the according location after the server deployment. Since Intershop 7.4 CI this process is automated by the CI setup. For more detailed information please refer to the according CI Setup Guide:

**Oracle JAR Files with Intershop 7 Version Matrix**:

Intershop | File | Oracle | JAR File Version | Size in | SHA1 checksum |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
ICM 7.6 and later | |||||
| ucp.jar | 12c | 12.1.0.2.0 | 733,729 | 384b4a763188849bfd68f313701ac11dafd1899b | |
| ojdbc7.jar | 12c | 12.1.0.2.0 | 3,698,857 | 7c9b5984b2c1e32e7c8cf3331df77f31e89e24c2 | |
| ons.jar | 12c | 12.1.0.2.0 | 106,496 | 1aee60b3f7aa581d90f2f18d5e334a1913da52c9 | |
Intershop 7.5 | |||||
| ucp.jar | 12c | 12.1.0.1.0 | 583.371 | 7f21ba5dc542f8b672b312d50106fe045b89f363 | |
ojdbc7.jar | 12c | 12.1.0.1.0 | 3.397.734 | a2348e4944956fac05235f7cd5d30bf872afb157 | |
| Intershop 7.4 CI | |||||
ucp.jar | 11gR2 | 11.2.0.4 | 5520b4e492939b477cc9ced90c03bc72710dcaf3 | ||
ojdbc6.jar | 11gR2 | 11.2.0.4 | 2,739,670 | a483a046eee2f404d864a6ff5b09dc0e1be3fe6c |

Tools to compute and check MD5 message digest `md5sum`

and determine the Implementation-Version from `META-INF/MANIFEST.MF`

for required JAR files:

`ucp/ojdbc*.jar: unzip -p <jarfile> META-INF/MANIFEST.MF | grep Implementation-Version`

`ons.jar: unzip -p <jarfile> META-INF/MANIFEST.MF | grep Label`

`ucp/ojdbc*/ons.jar: `

`md5sum <jarfile>`

This file (*IS_SHARE/system/config/cluster/orm.propeties*) defines important `intershop.jdbc.*`

properties for Intershop 7 | Intershop Commerce Management 7.

Properties ```
intershop.jdbc.url
```

and ```
intershop.jdbc.rac.
```

:*

Oracle | Property Key | Valid Values | Notes |
|---|---|---|---|
Single | |||
intershop.jdbc.url | jdbc:oracle:thin:@(DESCRIPTION= \ )) \ port (CONNECT_DATA=(SID= )))sid | SID based | |
jdbc:oracle:thin:@(DESCRIPTION= \ )) \ port (CONNECT_DATA=(SERVICE_NAME= )))service_name | SERVICE_NAME based | ||
jdbc:oracle:thin:@// : port / service_name | SERVICE_NAME based with | ||
RAC | |||
intershop.jdbc.url | jdbc:oracle:thin:@(DESCRIPTION= \ )) \ port (CONNECT_DATA=(SERVICE_NAME= )))service_name | SCAN access based | |
intershop.jdbc.url | jdbc:oracle:thin:@// | SCAN access based with | |
jdbc:oracle:thin:@(DESCRIPTION= \ )) \ port (ADDRESS=(PROTOCOL=TCP)(HOST= )(PORT= rac-node2 )) \ port ... \ (ADDRESS=(PROTOCOL=TCP)(HOST= )(PORT= rac-nodeN )) \ port (LOAD_BALANCE=YES) \ (CONNECT_DATA=(SERVICE_NAME= )))service_name | All addresses based | ||
intershop.jdbc.rac. | true or false | JDBC Fast Connection Failover | |
intershop.jdbc.rac. | nodes= ons_port | SCAN access based | |
nodes= | All addresses based |

Oracle cluster database server tools to determine RAC cluster ONS ports and status required for `intershop.jdbc.rac.remoteONSConfig`

with *onsctl* commands.

| Command | Description |
|---|---|
onsctl help | print help message |
| onsctl start | start ONS daemon |
| onsctl stop | stop ONS daemon |
| onsctl ping | determine status of ONS |
| onsctl debug | display debug information for the ONS daemon |
| onsctl reconfig | reload the ONS configuration without daemon shutdown |
| onsctl detailed | print a verbose syntax description |

Other important ```
intershop.jdbc.*
```

properties:

Property Key | Valid | Notes |
|---|---|---|
dataSourceFactory | com.intershop.beehive.core.capi.jdbc.oracle.Oracle | New Oracle UCP with latest |
ucp.ConnectionFactoryClassName | oracle.jdbc.pool.OracleDataSource | Pool data source class. |
ucp.ValidateConnectionOnBorrow | true or false | Validation connections, default false. |
ucp.MaxStatements | 10 | Caching SQL statements. |
ucp.InactiveConnectionTimeout | 30 | Controlling stale connections. |
serverName |
| used for DataSource via JDBC |

Variable Expansion

Property values like `${token}`

are automatically expanded when the configuration file is loaded. Example: `intershop.jdbc.connectionCacheInactivityTimeout = 30`

`intershop.jdbc.ucp.InactiveConnectionTimeout = ${intershop.jdbc.connectionCacheInactivityTimeout} `


The result will be:`intershop.jdbc.ucp.InactiveConnectionTimeout = 30`


This file is occated in *IS_SHARE/system/config/oracle/tnsname.ora*.

Oracle | Property Key | Valid Values | Notes |
|---|---|---|---|
Single | |||
ISSERVER.world | (DESCRIPTION= (ADDRESS=(PROTOCOL=TCP)(HOST=host)(PORT=port)) (CONNECT_DATA=(SID=sid)) ) | SID based | |
(DESCRIPTION= (ADDRESS=(PROTOCOL=TCP)(HOST=host)(PORT=port)) (CONNECT_DATA=(SERVICE_NAME=service_name)) ) | SERVICE_NAME | ||
RAC | |||
ISSERVER.world | (DESCRIPTION= (ADDRESS=(PROTOCOL=TCP)(HOST=cluster_alias)(PORT=port)) (CONNECT_DATA=(SERVICE_NAME=service_name)) ) | SCAN and | |
(DESCRIPTION= (ADDRESS=(PROTOCOL=TCP)(HOST=rac-node1)(PORT=port)) (ADDRESS=(PROTOCOL=TCP)(HOST=rac-node2)(PORT=port)) ... (ADDRESS=(PROTOCOL=TCP)(HOST=rac-nodeN)(PORT=port) (LOAD_BALANCE=YES) (CONNECT_DATA=(SERVICE_NAME=service_name) ) | All addresses |

The information provided in the Knowledge Base may not be applicable to all systems and situations. Intershop Communications will not be liable to any party for any direct or indirect damages resulting from the use of the Customer Support section of the Intershop Corporate Website, including, without limitation, any lost profits, business interruption, loss of programs or other data on your information handling system.