---
id: 'ffb5daafc995418b790e995a7d229591'
title: 'Locking Component Templates'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/32D467'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:50.024171+00:00'
---
# Locking Component Templates

Before editing a component template, you should lock the component template. Locking prevents the component template from being edited by other users in parallel. The component template lock can be released manually. It is released automatically after the configured lock interval has expired. For details about how to configure the component template lock interval, see [Defining Content Lock Period](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/operation_maintenance/task_defining_content_lock_period.html).

Basically, there are two ways to lock component templates: either directly from the component template list or tree, or via the Component Template detail view.

## Locking Component Templates in List/Tree View

-
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Component Templates.
This opens the Component Templates tree view.
-
Click the icon in the row of the component template(s) you intend to edit.
An error message appears if the component template is currently edited by another user.

## Locking Component Templates in Detail View

-
Select the management context from the context selection box, then select Content | Component Templates.
This opens the Component Templates tree view.
-
Click the name or ID of the component template you intend to edit.
This opens the Content tab of the detail view.
-
Click the icon at the dialog top.
An error message appears if the component template is currently edited by another user.