---
id: 'ffbf9b0f52fcc9041057156684077809'
title: 'Password Reminder'
url: 'https://knowledge.intershop.com/kb/index.php/Display/325M09'
scraped_at: '2026-04-21T05:32:38.583309+00:00'
---
# Password Reminder

The sales channel storefront includes mechanisms that enable individual customers or users of a business customer to retrieve a username or password which they may have forgotten.

-
Retrieving the Username

In order to retrieve a username, users have to provide the e-mail address under which they have registered at the store. If the system has been able to verify the information, an e-mail is sent to the user containing the username associated with the e-mail address provided. Content and layout of the e-mail are predefined by a template, which cannot be edited in Intershop Commerce Management.

-
Retrieving the Password

As part of registering at the store, users have to select a security question and provide the answer for the security question. In case a user later uses the link "Forgot your password" in the storefront, the user has to provide username, first and last name. In addition, the user has to answer the security question. If the system has been able to verify the information, an e-mail is sent to the user containing a link that the user can use to create a new password.

Note:Administrators can use a link in Intershop Commerce Management to have this e-mail sent to a user, without users having to answer the security question.Content and layout of the e-mail are predefined by a template, which cannot be edited in Intershop Commerce Management.


As part of managing sales channel preferences in Intershop Commerce Management, administrators can determine the subject header and sender address for the e-mail sent to users who wish to retrieve username or password. In addition, administrators can determine how long the link to create a new password remains active (e.g., 24 hours).

For details about password reminder settings, see [Managing Password Reminder Preferences](https://knowledge.intershop.com/oh/go.php/icm/master/icm_main_en/operation_maintenance/topic_managing_registration_and_reminder_preferences.html#task_pref_gen_apprRemind_pw).